docs/cloud-engineering/getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started with Cloud Engineering

## Cloud Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Design and implement scalable, secure, and cost-effective cloud infrastructure
    - Architect multi-cloud solutions that span AWS, Azure, and GCP platforms
    - Automate infrastructure deployment and management using Infrastructure as Code
    - Optimize cloud costs while maintaining performance and security standards
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Engineer Role Guide - AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/careers/career-paths/cloud/) - Cloud engineering career overview and responsibilities
      - [What is a Cloud Engineer? - Microsoft](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/career-paths/cloud-engineer) - Cloud engineering skills and career progression
      - [Cloud Engineering Best Practices - Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/docs/enterprise/best-practices-for-enterprise-organizations) - Enterprise cloud engineering practices

  - **Career Benefits and Market Demand**
    - High demand with competitive salaries and remote work opportunities
    - Continuous learning with cutting-edge technologies and innovation
    - Direct business impact through cost optimization and scalability solutions
    - Multiple career advancement paths in architecture, management, and specialization
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Engineer Salary Guide - Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/cloud-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,14.htm) - Compensation benchmarks and trends
      - [Cloud Computing Job Market - Indeed](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/cloud-computing-jobs) - Market demand and opportunities
      - [Remote Cloud Jobs - We Work Remotely](https://weworkremotely.com/categories/remote-devops-sysadmin-jobs) - Remote opportunities in cloud engineering

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete technical foundation requirements (networking, Linux, programming)
    - Understand cloud computing concepts and service models
    - Develop security awareness and compliance knowledge
    - Build business acumen and communication skills
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [Cloud Computing Fundamentals - AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/cloud-essentials/) - Cloud concepts and terminology
      - [CompTIA Cloud+ Training - Professor Messer](https://www.professormesser.com/cloud-plus/) - Cloud computing fundamentals

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: Cloud Fundamentals (6-8 weeks) - Multi-cloud services and core concepts
    - Module 2: Multi-Cloud Infrastructure (8-10 weeks) - Advanced networking and IaC
    - Module 3: Cloud Security (6-8 weeks) - Security architecture and compliance
    - Module 4: Cloud-Native Development (8-10 weeks) - Containers, serverless, and microservices
    - Module 5: Advanced Architecture (10-12 weeks) - Enterprise patterns and optimization
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: Cloud Fundamentals](./01-cloud-fundamentals.md) - Begin your cloud journey
      - [Module 2: Multi-Cloud Infrastructure](./02-multi-cloud-infrastructure.md) - Advanced infrastructure design
      - [Module 3: Cloud Security](./03-cloud-security.md) - Security architecture and implementation

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 12-18 months full curriculum with strong foundational focus
    - Experienced Developers: 8-12 months focused on cloud-native and infrastructure
    - System Administrators: 6-10 months transitioning to cloud infrastructure management
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Learning Path - AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/training/learning-paths/) - Structured AWS learning progression
      - [Azure Learning Paths](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/browse/?products=azure) - Microsoft Azure skill development
      - [Google Cloud Training](https://cloud.google.com/training) - GCP professional development paths

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Cloud Platform Certifications**
    - AWS certifications (Solutions Architect, DevOps Engineer, Security Specialty)
    - Azure certifications (Azure Architect, DevOps Engineer, Security Engineer)
    - Google Cloud certifications (Professional Cloud Architect, DevOps Engineer)
    - **Resources:**
      - [AWS Certification Guide](https://aws.amazon.com/certification/) - Complete AWS certification roadmap
      - [Azure Certification Path](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/) - Microsoft Azure certification journey
      - [Google Cloud Certifications](https://cloud.google.com/certification) - GCP professional certification paths

  - **Hands-On Practice Environments**
    - Free tier accounts for practical experience across all major cloud platforms
    - Infrastructure as Code tools and automation frameworks
    - Container orchestration and serverless development platforms
    - **Resources:**
      - [AWS Free Tier](https://aws.amazon.com/free/) - 12 months free AWS services for hands-on practice
      - [Azure Free Account](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/) - Free Azure services and credits
      - [Google Cloud Free Tier](https://cloud.google.com/free) - Always-free GCP services and trial credits
      - [Terraform Cloud](https://app.terraform.io/) - Free Infrastructure as Code platform

## Essential Tools and Technologies
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Infrastructure as Code Tools**
    - Terraform for multi-cloud infrastructure provisioning
    - CloudFormation for AWS-specific infrastructure
    - ARM templates for Azure resource management
    - **Resources:**
      - [Terraform Documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs) - Complete Terraform learning guide
      - [AWS CloudFormation User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/) - AWS infrastructure automation
      - [Azure Resource Manager Templates](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/) - Azure infrastructure management

  - **Container and Orchestration Platforms**
    - Docker for containerization and application packaging
    - Kubernetes for container orchestration and management
    - Cloud-managed Kubernetes services (EKS, AKS, GKE)
    - **Resources:**
      - [Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/) - Complete containerization guide
      - [Kubernetes Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/) - Container orchestration mastery
      - [Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://www.cncf.io/) - Cloud-native technology ecosystem

## Community and Professional Networks
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Professional Communities**
    - Join active cloud engineering communities for networking and knowledge sharing
    - Participate in cloud-focused meetups and conferences
    - Engage with open-source projects and contribute to cloud technologies
    - **Resources:**
      - [r/CloudComputing](https://www.reddit.com/r/cloudcomputing/) - Cloud computing discussions and career advice
      - [Cloud Native Computing Foundation Community](https://www.cncf.io/community/) - Cloud-native technology community
      - [AWS Community](https://aws.amazon.com/developer/community/) - AWS user groups and events
      - [Local Cloud Meetups](https://www.meetup.com/) - In-person networking and learning opportunities

## Success Metrics and Career Progression
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Competency Milestones**
    - Deploy and manage infrastructure across multiple cloud platforms
    - Implement Infrastructure as Code for repeatable deployments
    - Design secure, scalable, and cost-optimized cloud architectures
    - Automate CI/CD pipelines and application deployment processes
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Architecture Center - AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/architecture/) - Reference architectures and best practices
      - [Azure Architecture Center](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/) - Cloud architecture patterns and guidance
      - [Google Cloud Architecture Framework](https://cloud.google.com/architecture/framework) - Architecture design principles

  - **Professional Development Goals**
    - Obtain industry-recognized cloud certifications
    - Build portfolio of cloud projects and case studies
    - Develop expertise in emerging technologies and trends
    - Contribute to open-source projects and technical communities
    - **Resources:**
      - [GitHub Portfolio Guide](https://docs.github.com/en/github/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-profile) - Professional portfolio development
      - [Technical Blogging Guide - Hashnode](https://hashnode.com/) - Share knowledge and build thought leadership
      - [Open Source Contribution Guide](https://opensource.guide/) - Contributing to open-source projects

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Environment Setup**
    - Create free tier accounts on AWS, Azure, and GCP
    - Set up development environment with essential tools
    - Join professional communities and learning platforms
    - **Resources:**
      - [Multi-Cloud Setup Guide](https://cloud.google.com/docs/compare/aws) - Platform comparison and setup
      - [Development Environment Setup](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers) - Containerized development environments
      - [Git and GitHub Setup](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart) - Version control and collaboration

  - **Weeks 2-4: Foundation Building**
    - Complete cloud fundamentals training across all platforms
    - Practice basic infrastructure deployment and management
    - Begin Infrastructure as Code learning with Terraform
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Skills Boost - Google](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/) - Hands-on cloud labs and training
      - [Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/) - Interactive Azure learning modules
      - [AWS Skill Builder](https://skillbuilder.aws/) - AWS training and certification preparation

  - **Month 2-3: Practical Application**
    - Build and deploy multi-tier applications across cloud platforms
    - Implement monitoring, logging, and security best practices
    - Create portfolio projects demonstrating cloud engineering skills
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Resume Challenge](https://cloudresumechallenge.dev/) - Hands-on cloud project for portfolio
      - [Well-Architected Framework - AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/architecture/well-architected/) - Cloud architecture best practices
      - [Azure Well-Architected Framework](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/framework/) - Azure architecture principles

**Ready to Begin?** Start your Cloud Engineering journey with [Module 1: Cloud Fundamentals](./01-cloud-fundamentals.md) and master the art of multi-cloud architecture and engineering!

Commit message:

Add beta notices to all learning path getting-started pages
- Add prominent beta notice to top of all 10 learning path getting-started.md files
- Notice encourages community feedback and contributions via Discord and GitHub
- Explains that paths are continuously improved based on user input
- Provides clear channels for feedback: Discord discussions and GitHub PRs/issues
- Maintains transparency about iterative improvement process
- Encourages community participation in content development

Beta notices added to:
- Support Engineering
- Software Engineering
- Data Science
- Linux Engineering
- Cloud Engineering
- AI Engineering
- Machine Learning Engineering
- MLOps Engineering
- DevOps Engineering
- Research Engineering

Promotes open-source collaboration and community-driven improvement

docs/cloud-engineering/getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started with Cloud Engineering

> **🚧 This learning path is in beta!** We're continuously improving our content based on community feedback. Have suggestions, found outdated resources, or want to contribute? 
> - **Discord:** Join our community discussions
> - **GitHub:** Open an issue or submit a pull request to our [repository](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/chasingcloudcareers-site)
> - **Feedback:** Help us make this path even better for future learners!

## Cloud Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Design and implement scalable, secure, and cost-effective cloud infrastructure
    - Architect multi-cloud solutions that span AWS, Azure, and GCP platforms
    - Automate infrastructure deployment and management using Infrastructure as Code
    - Optimize cloud costs while maintaining performance and security standards
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Engineer Role Guide - AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/careers/career-paths/cloud/) - Cloud engineering career overview and responsibilities
      - [What is a Cloud Engineer? - Microsoft](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/career-paths/cloud-engineer) - Cloud engineering skills and career progression
      - [Cloud Engineering Best Practices - Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/docs/enterprise/best-practices-for-enterprise-organizations) - Enterprise cloud engineering practices

  - **Career Benefits and Market Demand**
    - High demand with competitive salaries and remote work opportunities
    - Continuous learning with cutting-edge technologies and innovation
    - Direct business impact through cost optimization and scalability solutions
    - Multiple career advancement paths in architecture, management, and specialization
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Engineer Salary Guide - Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/cloud-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,14.htm) - Compensation benchmarks and trends
      - [Cloud Computing Job Market - Indeed](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/cloud-computing-jobs) - Market demand and opportunities
      - [Remote Cloud Jobs - We Work Remotely](https://weworkremotely.com/categories/remote-devops-sysadmin-jobs) - Remote opportunities in cloud engineering

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete technical foundation requirements (networking, Linux, programming)
    - Understand cloud computing concepts and service models
    - Develop security awareness and compliance knowledge
    - Build business acumen and communication skills
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [Cloud Computing Fundamentals - AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/cloud-essentials/) - Cloud concepts and terminology
      - [CompTIA Cloud+ Training - Professor Messer](https://www.professormesser.com/cloud-plus/) - Cloud computing fundamentals

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: Cloud Fundamentals (6-8 weeks) - Multi-cloud services and core concepts
    - Module 2: Multi-Cloud Infrastructure (8-10 weeks) - Advanced networking and IaC
    - Module 3: Cloud Security (6-8 weeks) - Security architecture and compliance
    - Module 4: Cloud-Native Development (8-10 weeks) - Containers, serverless, and microservices
    - Module 5: Advanced Architecture (10-12 weeks) - Enterprise patterns and optimization
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: Cloud Fundamentals](./01-cloud-fundamentals.md) - Begin your cloud journey
      - [Module 2: Multi-Cloud Infrastructure](./02-multi-cloud-infrastructure.md) - Advanced infrastructure design
      - [Module 3: Cloud Security](./03-cloud-security.md) - Security architecture and implementation

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 12-18 months full curriculum with strong foundational focus
    - Experienced Developers: 8-12 months focused on cloud-native and infrastructure
    - System Administrators: 6-10 months transitioning to cloud infrastructure management
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Learning Path - AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/training/learning-paths/) - Structured AWS learning progression
      - [Azure Learning Paths](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/browse/?products=azure) - Microsoft Azure skill development
      - [Google Cloud Training](https://cloud.google.com/training) - GCP professional development paths

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Cloud Platform Certifications**
    - AWS certifications (Solutions Architect, DevOps Engineer, Security Specialty)
    - Azure certifications (Azure Architect, DevOps Engineer, Security Engineer)
    - Google Cloud certifications (Professional Cloud Architect, DevOps Engineer)
    - **Resources:**
      - [AWS Certification Guide](https://aws.amazon.com/certification/) - Complete AWS certification roadmap
      - [Azure Certification Path](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/) - Microsoft Azure certification journey
      - [Google Cloud Certifications](https://cloud.google.com/certification) - GCP professional certification paths

  - **Hands-On Practice Environments**
    - Free tier accounts for practical experience across all major cloud platforms
    - Infrastructure as Code tools and automation frameworks
    - Container orchestration and serverless development platforms
    - **Resources:**
      - [AWS Free Tier](https://aws.amazon.com/free/) - 12 months free AWS services for hands-on practice
      - [Azure Free Account](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/) - Free Azure services and credits
      - [Google Cloud Free Tier](https://cloud.google.com/free) - Always-free GCP services and trial credits
      - [Terraform Cloud](https://app.terraform.io/) - Free Infrastructure as Code platform

## Essential Tools and Technologies
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Infrastructure as Code Tools**
    - Terraform for multi-cloud infrastructure provisioning
    - CloudFormation for AWS-specific infrastructure
    - ARM templates for Azure resource management
    - **Resources:**
      - [Terraform Documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs) - Complete Terraform learning guide
      - [AWS CloudFormation User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/) - AWS infrastructure automation
      - [Azure Resource Manager Templates](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/) - Azure infrastructure management

  - **Container and Orchestration Platforms**
    - Docker for containerization and application packaging
    - Kubernetes for container orchestration and management
    - Cloud-managed Kubernetes services (EKS, AKS, GKE)
    - **Resources:**
      - [Docker Documentation](https://docs.docker.com/) - Complete containerization guide
      - [Kubernetes Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/) - Container orchestration mastery
      - [Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://www.cncf.io/) - Cloud-native technology ecosystem

## Community and Professional Networks
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Professional Communities**
    - Join active cloud engineering communities for networking and knowledge sharing
    - Participate in cloud-focused meetups and conferences
    - Engage with open-source projects and contribute to cloud technologies
    - **Resources:**
      - [r/CloudComputing](https://www.reddit.com/r/cloudcomputing/) - Cloud computing discussions and career advice
      - [Cloud Native Computing Foundation Community](https://www.cncf.io/community/) - Cloud-native technology community
      - [AWS Community](https://aws.amazon.com/developer/community/) - AWS user groups and events
      - [Local Cloud Meetups](https://www.meetup.com/) - In-person networking and learning opportunities

## Success Metrics and Career Progression
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Competency Milestones**
    - Deploy and manage infrastructure across multiple cloud platforms
    - Implement Infrastructure as Code for repeatable deployments
    - Design secure, scalable, and cost-optimized cloud architectures
    - Automate CI/CD pipelines and application deployment processes
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Architecture Center - AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/architecture/) - Reference architectures and best practices
      - [Azure Architecture Center](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/) - Cloud architecture patterns and guidance
      - [Google Cloud Architecture Framework](https://cloud.google.com/architecture/framework) - Architecture design principles

  - **Professional Development Goals**
    - Obtain industry-recognized cloud certifications
    - Build portfolio of cloud projects and case studies
    - Develop expertise in emerging technologies and trends
    - Contribute to open-source projects and technical communities
    - **Resources:**
      - [GitHub Portfolio Guide](https://docs.github.com/en/github/setting-up-and-managing-your-github-profile) - Professional portfolio development
      - [Technical Blogging Guide - Hashnode](https://hashnode.com/) - Share knowledge and build thought leadership
      - [Open Source Contribution Guide](https://opensource.guide/) - Contributing to open-source projects

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Environment Setup**
    - Create free tier accounts on AWS, Azure, and GCP
    - Set up development environment with essential tools
    - Join professional communities and learning platforms
    - **Resources:**
      - [Multi-Cloud Setup Guide](https://cloud.google.com/docs/compare/aws) - Platform comparison and setup
      - [Development Environment Setup](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers) - Containerized development environments
      - [Git and GitHub Setup](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart) - Version control and collaboration

  - **Weeks 2-4: Foundation Building**
    - Complete cloud fundamentals training across all platforms
    - Practice basic infrastructure deployment and management
    - Begin Infrastructure as Code learning with Terraform
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Skills Boost - Google](https://www.cloudskillsboost.google/) - Hands-on cloud labs and training
      - [Microsoft Learn](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/) - Interactive Azure learning modules
      - [AWS Skill Builder](https://skillbuilder.aws/) - AWS training and certification preparation

  - **Month 2-3: Practical Application**
    - Build and deploy multi-tier applications across cloud platforms
    - Implement monitoring, logging, and security best practices
    - Create portfolio projects demonstrating cloud engineering skills
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Resume Challenge](https://cloudresumechallenge.dev/) - Hands-on cloud project for portfolio
      - [Well-Architected Framework - AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/architecture/well-architected/) - Cloud architecture best practices
      - [Azure Well-Architected Framework](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/framework/) - Azure architecture principles

**Ready to Begin?** Start your Cloud Engineering journey with [Module 1: Cloud Fundamentals](./01-cloud-fundamentals.md) and master the art of multi-cloud architecture and engineering!
