docs/devops-engineering/getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Getting Started with DevOps Engineering

## DevOps Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Bridge development and operations teams to enable faster, more reliable software delivery
    - Design and implement CI/CD pipelines for automated testing and deployment
    - Manage infrastructure as code and automate system provisioning
    - Monitor applications and infrastructure to ensure reliability and performance
    - **Resources:**
      - [What is DevOps? - Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/devops/what-is-devops) - Comprehensive DevOps overview and practices
      - [DevOps Engineer Role Guide - GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/topics/devops/) - Role responsibilities and career path
      - [Site Reliability Engineering - Google](https://sre.google/sre-book/introduction/) - SRE practices and methodologies

  - **Career Benefits and Opportunities**
    - High demand across all industries adopting cloud and agile practices
    - Competitive salaries and strong job growth in technology sector
    - Opportunity to work with cutting-edge technologies and automation tools
    - Clear career progression from junior to senior and specialized roles
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Salary Guide - Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/devops-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,15.htm) - Compensation benchmarks and trends
      - [DevOps Jobs Report - Puppet](https://puppet.com/resources/report/2021-state-of-devops-report/) - Industry trends and opportunities
      - [Career Paths in DevOps - DevOps Institute](https://devopsinstitute.com/career-paths/) - Professional development guidance

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete programming and scripting fundamentals
    - Develop Linux system administration and command-line skills
    - Build networking and cloud computing knowledge
    - Establish collaboration and communication abilities
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [DevOps Roadmap](https://roadmap.sh/devops) - Visual learning path and skill progression
      - [DevOps Fundamentals - Red Hat](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/devops) - Core DevOps concepts and practices

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: DevOps Fundamentals (6-8 weeks) - Culture, principles, and basic automation
    - Module 2: CI/CD and Automation (8-10 weeks) - Pipeline design and deployment automation
    - Module 3: Infrastructure as Code (8-10 weeks) - Infrastructure automation and management
    - Module 4: Containerization and Orchestration (10-12 weeks) - Container technologies and Kubernetes
    - Module 5: Monitoring and Observability (6-8 weeks) - System monitoring and performance optimization
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: DevOps Fundamentals](./01-devops-fundamentals.md) - Begin your DevOps journey
      - [Module 2: CI/CD and Automation](./02-cicd-automation.md) - Master pipeline automation
      - [Module 3: Infrastructure as Code](./03-infrastructure-as-code.md) - Automate infrastructure management

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 12-15 months full curriculum with emphasis on fundamentals
    - Software Developers: 8-10 months focused on operations and infrastructure skills
    - System Administrators: 6-8 months emphasizing development practices and automation
    - Career Changers: 10-12 months comprehensive path with portfolio development
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Learning Path - Microsoft](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/evolve-your-devops-practices/) - Structured learning progression
      - [AWS DevOps Learning Path](https://aws.amazon.com/training/learning-paths/devops/) - Cloud-focused DevOps skills
      - [Google Cloud DevOps Path](https://cloud.google.com/training/devops-sre) - GCP DevOps and SRE training

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Industry Certifications and Training**
    - AWS Certified DevOps Engineer for cloud automation expertise
    - Microsoft Azure DevOps Engineer Expert for Azure-focused skills
    - Docker and Kubernetes certifications for container technology mastery
    - **Resources:**
      - [AWS DevOps Certification](https://aws.amazon.com/certification/certified-devops-engineer-professional/) - Professional-level AWS DevOps certification
      - [Azure DevOps Certification](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/devops-engineer/) - Microsoft Azure DevOps certification path
      - [Kubernetes Certifications - CNCF](https://www.cncf.io/certification/cka/) - Cloud native technology certifications
      - [Docker Certified Associate](https://training.mirantis.com/dca-certification-exam/) - Container technology certification

  - **Practice Environments and Labs**
    - Set up home lab environments for hands-on DevOps practice
    - Use cloud free tiers for real-world infrastructure experience
    - Practice with open-source tools and community projects
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Lab Setup Guide - DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/initial-server-setup-with-ubuntu-20-04) - Home lab configuration
      - [Katacoda Interactive Scenarios](https://www.katacoda.com/courses/devops) - Browser-based DevOps practice
      - [Play with Docker](https://labs.play-with-docker.com/) - Free Docker playground environment
      - [Kubernetes Playground](https://www.katacoda.com/courses/kubernetes/playground) - Interactive Kubernetes learning

## Community and Professional Networks
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **DevOps Communities and Forums**
    - Join active DevOps communities for learning and networking
    - Participate in open-source projects and contribute to DevOps tools
    - Attend local DevOps meetups and technology conferences
    - **Resources:**
      - [r/devops Community](https://www.reddit.com/r/devops/) - Large DevOps discussion community
      - [DevOps Stack Exchange](https://devops.stackexchange.com/) - Q&A platform for DevOps professionals
      - [Local DevOps Meetups](https://www.meetup.com/topics/devops/) - Find local DevOps communities
      - [DevOpsDays Events](https://devopsdays.org/) - Global DevOps conference series

  - **Open Source Contribution**
    - Contribute to DevOps tools and infrastructure projects
    - Build portfolio through automation scripts and tools
    - Participate in hackathons and community challenges
    - **Resources:**
      - [Awesome DevOps](https://github.com/awesome-soft/awesome-devops) - Curated list of DevOps tools and projects
      - [First Contributions Guide](https://firstcontributions.github.io/) - Step-by-step guide to open-source contribution
      - [Good First Issues](https://goodfirstissues.com/) - Beginner-friendly open-source projects
      - [Hacktoberfest](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/) - Annual open-source contribution event

## Hands-On Practice and Projects
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Practice Projects**
    - Build and deploy web applications using CI/CD pipelines
    - Automate infrastructure provisioning with Infrastructure as Code
    - Implement monitoring and logging for applications and systems
    - Create containerized applications and orchestrate with Kubernetes
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Project Ideas - GitHub](https://github.com/topics/devops-projects) - Practical DevOps project examples
      - [Infrastructure as Code Examples](https://github.com/terraform-providers) - Terraform and infrastructure automation
      - [CI/CD Pipeline Examples - GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/examples/) - Pipeline configuration examples
      - [Kubernetes Examples - Kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/examples) - Container orchestration projects

  - **Portfolio Development**
    - Document automation projects and infrastructure designs
    - Create GitHub repositories showcasing DevOps skills and tools
    - Build technical blog demonstrating problem-solving abilities
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Portfolio Guide - freeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-build-a-developer-portfolio-website/) - Building effective technical portfolios
      - [GitHub Portfolio Examples](https://github.com/topics/portfolio) - Examples of technical portfolios
      - [Technical Blog Writing - Dev.to](https://dev.to/t/devops) - Platform for sharing DevOps knowledge
      - [LinkedIn Learning - Portfolio](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/topics/portfolio-development) - Professional portfolio development

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1-2: Environment Setup and Tool Familiarization**
    - Complete prerequisites assessment and fill knowledge gaps
    - Set up development environment with essential DevOps tools
    - Create accounts on cloud platforms and practice basic operations
    - Join DevOps communities and bookmark essential resources
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Toolchain Guide - Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/devops/devops-tools) - Essential DevOps tools overview
      - [Cloud Platform Setup - DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials) - Cloud environment configuration
      - [Git Workflow Setup - GitHub](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/) - Version control workflow

  - **Week 3-4: Foundation Building**
    - Begin Module 1: DevOps Fundamentals with daily practice
    - Set up regular study schedule (minimum 10-15 hours per week)
    - Start building simple automation scripts and documenting progress
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Learning Schedule - Notion](https://www.notion.so/templates/study-schedule) - Learning schedule organization
      - [Automation Scripts - GitHub](https://github.com/topics/automation-scripts) - Script examples and inspiration
      - [Learning Journal Template](https://www.evernote.com/shard/s302/sh/c6b3ea3c-9c3e-4c5e-b6a7-8b9c5d2e1f0a/note) - Track progress and insights

  - **Month 2-3: Skill Development and Practice**
    - Progress through CI/CD and infrastructure automation modules
    - Complete hands-on projects and document solutions
    - Begin contributing to open-source DevOps projects
    - **Resources:**
      - [CI/CD Project Tutorials - GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/examples/) - Pipeline implementation guides
      - [Infrastructure Projects - Terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/infrastructure-as-code) - IaC project examples
      - [Open Source Contribution Guide](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/) - Getting started with contributions

## Success Metrics and Milestones
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Skill Benchmarks**
    - Proficiency in scripting and automation languages (Python, Bash, YAML)
    - Ability to design and implement CI/CD pipelines
    - Experience with infrastructure as code tools (Terraform, Ansible)
    - Understanding of containerization and orchestration technologies
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Skills Assessment - Linux Academy](https://linuxacademy.com/library/devops-skills-assessment/) - Self-assessment tools
      - [DevOps Competency Matrix](https://sijinjoseph.com/programmer-competency-matrix/) - Skill level evaluation framework
      - [Industry Skill Standards - DevOps Institute](https://devopsinstitute.com/certifications/) - Professional competency standards

  - **Professional Development Goals**
    - Build portfolio of automation projects and infrastructure designs
    - Obtain relevant certifications (AWS, Azure, Kubernetes, Docker)
    - Establish professional network within DevOps community
    - Secure internship, entry-level position, or career advancement
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Career Roadmap](https://roadmap.sh/devops) - Professional development planning
      - [Technical Interview Preparation](https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer) - System design and DevOps concepts
      - [LinkedIn Learning - DevOps](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/topics/devops) - Professional skill development courses

## Essential Tools and Technologies
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Version Control and Collaboration**
    - Git for source code management and collaboration
    - GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket for repository hosting
    - Code review tools and branching strategies
    - **Resources:**
      - [Git Documentation](https://git-scm.com/doc) - Complete Git reference
      - [GitHub Skills](https://skills.github.com/) - Interactive GitHub learning
      - [GitLab CI/CD Guide](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/) - Pipeline automation with GitLab

  - **Infrastructure and Configuration Management**
    - Terraform for infrastructure as code
    - Ansible for configuration management and automation
    - Cloud provider CLIs (AWS CLI, Azure CLI, gcloud)
    - **Resources:**
      - [Terraform Tutorial](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform) - Infrastructure automation learning
      - [Ansible Documentation](https://docs.ansible.com/) - Configuration management guide
      - [Cloud CLI Tutorials - DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials) - Cloud command-line tools

  - **Containerization and Orchestration**
    - Docker for containerization and application packaging
    - Kubernetes for container orchestration and management
    - Container registries and image management
    - **Resources:**
      - [Docker Tutorial](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/) - Container technology fundamentals
      - [Kubernetes Tutorial](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/) - Container orchestration learning
      - [Container Best Practices - Google](https://cloud.google.com/architecture/best-practices-for-building-containers) - Container optimization

## Industry Trends and Emerging Technologies
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Cloud-Native Technologies**
    - Microservices architecture and service mesh
    - Serverless computing and Function-as-a-Service
    - Cloud-native security and compliance practices
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://www.cncf.io/) - Cloud-native technology landscape
      - [Microservices Patterns - Martin Fowler](https://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html) - Microservices architecture
      - [Serverless Framework](https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs/) - Serverless application development

  - **DevSecOps and Security Integration**
    - Security as code and automated security testing
    - Container security and vulnerability scanning
    - Compliance automation and policy as code
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevSecOps Guide - NIST](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-218/final) - Security in DevOps practices
      - [Container Security - Aqua Security](https://www.aquasec.com/cloud-native-academy/container-security/) - Container security best practices
      - [Policy as Code - Open Policy Agent](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/) - Automated policy enforcement

  - **Observability and Site Reliability Engineering**
    - Modern monitoring and observability practices
    - Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) methodologies
    - Chaos engineering and resilience testing
    - **Resources:**
      - [Observability Guide - Honeycomb](https://www.honeycomb.io/what-is-observability/) - Modern observability practices
      - [SRE Workbook - Google](https://sre.google/workbook/table-of-contents/) - Practical SRE implementation
      - [Chaos Engineering - Principles](https://principlesofchaos.org/) - Resilience testing methodologies

**Ready to Begin?** Start your DevOps Engineering journey with [Module 1: DevOps Fundamentals](./01-devops-fundamentals.md) and transform your career through mastery of modern software delivery practices!

Commit message:

Add beta notices to all learning path getting-started pages
- Add prominent beta notice to top of all 10 learning path getting-started.md files
- Notice encourages community feedback and contributions via Discord and GitHub
- Explains that paths are continuously improved based on user input
- Provides clear channels for feedback: Discord discussions and GitHub PRs/issues
- Maintains transparency about iterative improvement process
- Encourages community participation in content development

Beta notices added to:
- Support Engineering
- Software Engineering
- Data Science
- Linux Engineering
- Cloud Engineering
- AI Engineering
- Machine Learning Engineering
- MLOps Engineering
- DevOps Engineering
- Research Engineering

Promotes open-source collaboration and community-driven improvement

docs/devops-engineering/getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Getting Started with DevOps Engineering

> **🚧 This learning path is in beta!** We're continuously improving our content based on community feedback. Have suggestions, found outdated resources, or want to contribute? 
> - **Discord:** Join our community discussions
> - **GitHub:** Open an issue or submit a pull request to our [repository](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/chasingcloudcareers-site)
> - **Feedback:** Help us make this path even better for future learners!

## DevOps Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Bridge development and operations teams to enable faster, more reliable software delivery
    - Design and implement CI/CD pipelines for automated testing and deployment
    - Manage infrastructure as code and automate system provisioning
    - Monitor applications and infrastructure to ensure reliability and performance
    - **Resources:**
      - [What is DevOps? - Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/devops/what-is-devops) - Comprehensive DevOps overview and practices
      - [DevOps Engineer Role Guide - GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/topics/devops/) - Role responsibilities and career path
      - [Site Reliability Engineering - Google](https://sre.google/sre-book/introduction/) - SRE practices and methodologies

  - **Career Benefits and Opportunities**
    - High demand across all industries adopting cloud and agile practices
    - Competitive salaries and strong job growth in technology sector
    - Opportunity to work with cutting-edge technologies and automation tools
    - Clear career progression from junior to senior and specialized roles
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Salary Guide - Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/devops-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,15.htm) - Compensation benchmarks and trends
      - [DevOps Jobs Report - Puppet](https://puppet.com/resources/report/2021-state-of-devops-report/) - Industry trends and opportunities
      - [Career Paths in DevOps - DevOps Institute](https://devopsinstitute.com/career-paths/) - Professional development guidance

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete programming and scripting fundamentals
    - Develop Linux system administration and command-line skills
    - Build networking and cloud computing knowledge
    - Establish collaboration and communication abilities
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [DevOps Roadmap](https://roadmap.sh/devops) - Visual learning path and skill progression
      - [DevOps Fundamentals - Red Hat](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/devops) - Core DevOps concepts and practices

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: DevOps Fundamentals (6-8 weeks) - Culture, principles, and basic automation
    - Module 2: CI/CD and Automation (8-10 weeks) - Pipeline design and deployment automation
    - Module 3: Infrastructure as Code (8-10 weeks) - Infrastructure automation and management
    - Module 4: Containerization and Orchestration (10-12 weeks) - Container technologies and Kubernetes
    - Module 5: Monitoring and Observability (6-8 weeks) - System monitoring and performance optimization
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: DevOps Fundamentals](./01-devops-fundamentals.md) - Begin your DevOps journey
      - [Module 2: CI/CD and Automation](./02-cicd-automation.md) - Master pipeline automation
      - [Module 3: Infrastructure as Code](./03-infrastructure-as-code.md) - Automate infrastructure management

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 12-15 months full curriculum with emphasis on fundamentals
    - Software Developers: 8-10 months focused on operations and infrastructure skills
    - System Administrators: 6-8 months emphasizing development practices and automation
    - Career Changers: 10-12 months comprehensive path with portfolio development
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Learning Path - Microsoft](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/evolve-your-devops-practices/) - Structured learning progression
      - [AWS DevOps Learning Path](https://aws.amazon.com/training/learning-paths/devops/) - Cloud-focused DevOps skills
      - [Google Cloud DevOps Path](https://cloud.google.com/training/devops-sre) - GCP DevOps and SRE training

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Industry Certifications and Training**
    - AWS Certified DevOps Engineer for cloud automation expertise
    - Microsoft Azure DevOps Engineer Expert for Azure-focused skills
    - Docker and Kubernetes certifications for container technology mastery
    - **Resources:**
      - [AWS DevOps Certification](https://aws.amazon.com/certification/certified-devops-engineer-professional/) - Professional-level AWS DevOps certification
      - [Azure DevOps Certification](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/devops-engineer/) - Microsoft Azure DevOps certification path
      - [Kubernetes Certifications - CNCF](https://www.cncf.io/certification/cka/) - Cloud native technology certifications
      - [Docker Certified Associate](https://training.mirantis.com/dca-certification-exam/) - Container technology certification

  - **Practice Environments and Labs**
    - Set up home lab environments for hands-on DevOps practice
    - Use cloud free tiers for real-world infrastructure experience
    - Practice with open-source tools and community projects
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Lab Setup Guide - DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/initial-server-setup-with-ubuntu-20-04) - Home lab configuration
      - [Katacoda Interactive Scenarios](https://www.katacoda.com/courses/devops) - Browser-based DevOps practice
      - [Play with Docker](https://labs.play-with-docker.com/) - Free Docker playground environment
      - [Kubernetes Playground](https://www.katacoda.com/courses/kubernetes/playground) - Interactive Kubernetes learning

## Community and Professional Networks
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **DevOps Communities and Forums**
    - Join active DevOps communities for learning and networking
    - Participate in open-source projects and contribute to DevOps tools
    - Attend local DevOps meetups and technology conferences
    - **Resources:**
      - [r/devops Community](https://www.reddit.com/r/devops/) - Large DevOps discussion community
      - [DevOps Stack Exchange](https://devops.stackexchange.com/) - Q&A platform for DevOps professionals
      - [Local DevOps Meetups](https://www.meetup.com/topics/devops/) - Find local DevOps communities
      - [DevOpsDays Events](https://devopsdays.org/) - Global DevOps conference series

  - **Open Source Contribution**
    - Contribute to DevOps tools and infrastructure projects
    - Build portfolio through automation scripts and tools
    - Participate in hackathons and community challenges
    - **Resources:**
      - [Awesome DevOps](https://github.com/awesome-soft/awesome-devops) - Curated list of DevOps tools and projects
      - [First Contributions Guide](https://firstcontributions.github.io/) - Step-by-step guide to open-source contribution
      - [Good First Issues](https://goodfirstissues.com/) - Beginner-friendly open-source projects
      - [Hacktoberfest](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/) - Annual open-source contribution event

## Hands-On Practice and Projects
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Practice Projects**
    - Build and deploy web applications using CI/CD pipelines
    - Automate infrastructure provisioning with Infrastructure as Code
    - Implement monitoring and logging for applications and systems
    - Create containerized applications and orchestrate with Kubernetes
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Project Ideas - GitHub](https://github.com/topics/devops-projects) - Practical DevOps project examples
      - [Infrastructure as Code Examples](https://github.com/terraform-providers) - Terraform and infrastructure automation
      - [CI/CD Pipeline Examples - GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/examples/) - Pipeline configuration examples
      - [Kubernetes Examples - Kubernetes](https://github.com/kubernetes/examples) - Container orchestration projects

  - **Portfolio Development**
    - Document automation projects and infrastructure designs
    - Create GitHub repositories showcasing DevOps skills and tools
    - Build technical blog demonstrating problem-solving abilities
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Portfolio Guide - freeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-build-a-developer-portfolio-website/) - Building effective technical portfolios
      - [GitHub Portfolio Examples](https://github.com/topics/portfolio) - Examples of technical portfolios
      - [Technical Blog Writing - Dev.to](https://dev.to/t/devops) - Platform for sharing DevOps knowledge
      - [LinkedIn Learning - Portfolio](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/topics/portfolio-development) - Professional portfolio development

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1-2: Environment Setup and Tool Familiarization**
    - Complete prerequisites assessment and fill knowledge gaps
    - Set up development environment with essential DevOps tools
    - Create accounts on cloud platforms and practice basic operations
    - Join DevOps communities and bookmark essential resources
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Toolchain Guide - Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/devops/devops-tools) - Essential DevOps tools overview
      - [Cloud Platform Setup - DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials) - Cloud environment configuration
      - [Git Workflow Setup - GitHub](https://guides.github.com/introduction/flow/) - Version control workflow

  - **Week 3-4: Foundation Building**
    - Begin Module 1: DevOps Fundamentals with daily practice
    - Set up regular study schedule (minimum 10-15 hours per week)
    - Start building simple automation scripts and documenting progress
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Learning Schedule - Notion](https://www.notion.so/templates/study-schedule) - Learning schedule organization
      - [Automation Scripts - GitHub](https://github.com/topics/automation-scripts) - Script examples and inspiration
      - [Learning Journal Template](https://www.evernote.com/shard/s302/sh/c6b3ea3c-9c3e-4c5e-b6a7-8b9c5d2e1f0a/note) - Track progress and insights

  - **Month 2-3: Skill Development and Practice**
    - Progress through CI/CD and infrastructure automation modules
    - Complete hands-on projects and document solutions
    - Begin contributing to open-source DevOps projects
    - **Resources:**
      - [CI/CD Project Tutorials - GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/examples/) - Pipeline implementation guides
      - [Infrastructure Projects - Terraform](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/infrastructure-as-code) - IaC project examples
      - [Open Source Contribution Guide](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/) - Getting started with contributions

## Success Metrics and Milestones
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Skill Benchmarks**
    - Proficiency in scripting and automation languages (Python, Bash, YAML)
    - Ability to design and implement CI/CD pipelines
    - Experience with infrastructure as code tools (Terraform, Ansible)
    - Understanding of containerization and orchestration technologies
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Skills Assessment - Linux Academy](https://linuxacademy.com/library/devops-skills-assessment/) - Self-assessment tools
      - [DevOps Competency Matrix](https://sijinjoseph.com/programmer-competency-matrix/) - Skill level evaluation framework
      - [Industry Skill Standards - DevOps Institute](https://devopsinstitute.com/certifications/) - Professional competency standards

  - **Professional Development Goals**
    - Build portfolio of automation projects and infrastructure designs
    - Obtain relevant certifications (AWS, Azure, Kubernetes, Docker)
    - Establish professional network within DevOps community
    - Secure internship, entry-level position, or career advancement
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevOps Career Roadmap](https://roadmap.sh/devops) - Professional development planning
      - [Technical Interview Preparation](https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer) - System design and DevOps concepts
      - [LinkedIn Learning - DevOps](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/topics/devops) - Professional skill development courses

## Essential Tools and Technologies
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Version Control and Collaboration**
    - Git for source code management and collaboration
    - GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket for repository hosting
    - Code review tools and branching strategies
    - **Resources:**
      - [Git Documentation](https://git-scm.com/doc) - Complete Git reference
      - [GitHub Skills](https://skills.github.com/) - Interactive GitHub learning
      - [GitLab CI/CD Guide](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/) - Pipeline automation with GitLab

  - **Infrastructure and Configuration Management**
    - Terraform for infrastructure as code
    - Ansible for configuration management and automation
    - Cloud provider CLIs (AWS CLI, Azure CLI, gcloud)
    - **Resources:**
      - [Terraform Tutorial](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform) - Infrastructure automation learning
      - [Ansible Documentation](https://docs.ansible.com/) - Configuration management guide
      - [Cloud CLI Tutorials - DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials) - Cloud command-line tools

  - **Containerization and Orchestration**
    - Docker for containerization and application packaging
    - Kubernetes for container orchestration and management
    - Container registries and image management
    - **Resources:**
      - [Docker Tutorial](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/) - Container technology fundamentals
      - [Kubernetes Tutorial](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/) - Container orchestration learning
      - [Container Best Practices - Google](https://cloud.google.com/architecture/best-practices-for-building-containers) - Container optimization

## Industry Trends and Emerging Technologies
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Cloud-Native Technologies**
    - Microservices architecture and service mesh
    - Serverless computing and Function-as-a-Service
    - Cloud-native security and compliance practices
    - **Resources:**
      - [Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://www.cncf.io/) - Cloud-native technology landscape
      - [Microservices Patterns - Martin Fowler](https://martinfowler.com/articles/microservices.html) - Microservices architecture
      - [Serverless Framework](https://www.serverless.com/framework/docs/) - Serverless application development

  - **DevSecOps and Security Integration**
    - Security as code and automated security testing
    - Container security and vulnerability scanning
    - Compliance automation and policy as code
    - **Resources:**
      - [DevSecOps Guide - NIST](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-218/final) - Security in DevOps practices
      - [Container Security - Aqua Security](https://www.aquasec.com/cloud-native-academy/container-security/) - Container security best practices
      - [Policy as Code - Open Policy Agent](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/) - Automated policy enforcement

  - **Observability and Site Reliability Engineering**
    - Modern monitoring and observability practices
    - Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) methodologies
    - Chaos engineering and resilience testing
    - **Resources:**
      - [Observability Guide - Honeycomb](https://www.honeycomb.io/what-is-observability/) - Modern observability practices
      - [SRE Workbook - Google](https://sre.google/workbook/table-of-contents/) - Practical SRE implementation
      - [Chaos Engineering - Principles](https://principlesofchaos.org/) - Resilience testing methodologies

**Ready to Begin?** Start your DevOps Engineering journey with [Module 1: DevOps Fundamentals](./01-devops-fundamentals.md) and transform your career through mastery of modern software delivery practices!
