docs/mlops-engineering/getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started with MLOps Engineering

## MLOps Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Design and implement ML infrastructure and deployment pipelines
    - Automate ML model lifecycle from development to production
    - Ensure scalability, reliability, and monitoring of ML systems
    - Bridge the gap between data science and production engineering
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Engineer Role Guide](https://ml-ops.org/content/mlops-principles) - MLOps principles and practices
      - [What is MLOps? - Google](https://cloud.google.com/architecture/mlops-continuous-delivery-and-automation-pipelines-in-machine-learning) - MLOps overview and architecture
      - [MLOps Maturity Model](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/mlops/mlops-maturity-model) - Microsoft MLOps maturity framework

  - **Career Benefits and Market Demand**
    - High demand with competitive salaries and growth opportunities
    - Work at the intersection of ML, DevOps, and cloud technologies
    - Direct impact on ML model performance and business outcomes
    - Multiple career paths in platform engineering and technical leadership
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Engineer Salary Guide](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/mlops-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,14.htm) - Compensation benchmarks
      - [ML Infrastructure Jobs](https://www.indeed.com/q-Machine-Learning-Infrastructure-jobs.html) - Market demand analysis
      - [MLOps Career Paths](https://neptune.ai/blog/mlops-career-guide) - Career progression in MLOps

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete software engineering and DevOps foundations
    - Understand ML fundamentals and model lifecycle
    - Learn data engineering and pipeline development
    - Master monitoring, security, and infrastructure concepts
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [MLOps Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/machine-learning-engineering-for-production-mlops) - End-to-end MLOps curriculum
      - [Building Machine Learning Pipelines](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/building-machine-learning/9781492053187/) - ML pipeline development

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: MLOps Fundamentals (6-8 weeks) - Core concepts and lifecycle
    - Module 2: ML Pipelines (8-10 weeks) - Automated training and data pipelines
    - Module 3: Model Deployment (8-10 weeks) - Production deployment strategies
    - Module 4: Monitoring and Observability (6-8 weeks) - ML system monitoring
    - Module 5: Infrastructure Automation (10-12 weeks) - Scalable ML infrastructure
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: MLOps Fundamentals](./01-mlops-fundamentals.md) - Begin your MLOps journey
      - [Module 2: ML Pipelines](./02-ml-pipelines.md) - Automated ML workflows
      - [Module 3: Model Deployment](./03-model-deployment.md) - Production deployment

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Software Engineers: 12-16 months focused on ML concepts and data engineering
    - Data Scientists: 10-14 months emphasizing DevOps and infrastructure
    - DevOps Engineers: 8-12 months learning ML lifecycle and model deployment
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Zoomcamp](https://github.com/DataTalksClub/mlops-zoomcamp) - Practical MLOps course
      - [Full Stack Deep Learning](https://fullstackdeeplearning.com/) - Production ML systems
      - [Made With ML](https://madewithml.com/) - MLOps best practices and patterns

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **MLOps Tools and Platforms**
    - MLflow for experiment tracking and model registry
    - Kubeflow for ML workflows on Kubernetes
    - Apache Airflow for pipeline orchestration
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLflow Documentation](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/index.html) - ML lifecycle management
      - [Kubeflow Documentation](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/) - ML workflows on Kubernetes
      - [Apache Airflow Guide](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/tutorial.html) - Workflow orchestration

  - **Cloud ML Platforms**
    - AWS SageMaker for end-to-end ML workflows
    - Azure Machine Learning for enterprise ML
    - Google Cloud AI Platform for scalable ML
    - **Resources:**
      - [AWS SageMaker Developer Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/) - AWS ML platform
      - [Azure Machine Learning Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/) - Azure ML services
      - [Google Cloud AI Platform](https://cloud.google.com/ai-platform/docs) - GCP ML platform

## Essential Tools and Technologies
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Container and Orchestration Platforms**
    - Docker for ML model containerization
    - Kubernetes for ML workload orchestration
    - Helm for Kubernetes application management
    - **Resources:**
      - [Docker for ML](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/) - Containerization fundamentals
      - [Kubernetes for ML Workloads](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/) - K8s ML applications
      - [Helm Documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/) - Kubernetes package manager

  - **Infrastructure as Code Tools**
    - Terraform for multi-cloud ML infrastructure
    - Ansible for configuration management
    - CloudFormation for AWS-specific deployments
    - **Resources:**
      - [Terraform for ML Infrastructure](https://www.terraform.io/docs) - IaC for ML systems
      - [Ansible Automation](https://docs.ansible.com/) - Configuration management
      - [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/) - AWS infrastructure automation

## Industry Applications and Use Cases
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Enterprise ML Deployment Patterns**
    - Batch prediction and real-time inference
    - A/B testing and canary deployments for ML
    - Multi-model serving and model versioning
    - **Resources:**
      - [ML Deployment Patterns](https://martinfowler.com/articles/cd4ml.html) - Continuous delivery for ML
      - [Model Serving Patterns](https://www.jeremyjordan.me/ml-systems-design/) - ML system design patterns
      - [A/B Testing for ML](https://netflixtechblog.com/its-all-a-bout-testing-the-netflix-experimentation-platform-4e1ca458c15) - Netflix experimentation platform

  - **MLOps in Different Industries**
    - Financial services ML compliance and governance
    - Healthcare ML regulatory requirements
    - Retail and e-commerce recommendation systems
    - **Resources:**
      - [ML in Financial Services](https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/files/machine-learning-in-banking-and-finance.pdf) - Fed ML guidance
      - [Healthcare ML Compliance](https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/software-medical-device-samd/artificial-intelligence-and-machine-learning-software-medical-device) - FDA AI/ML guidance
      - [ML at Scale - Uber](https://eng.uber.com/michelangelo-machine-learning-platform/) - Production ML platform

## Success Metrics and Career Progression
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Competency Milestones**
    - Build end-to-end ML pipelines with automated training
    - Deploy ML models with monitoring and observability
    - Implement Infrastructure as Code for ML systems
    - Design scalable and fault-tolerant ML architectures
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Maturity Assessment](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/mlops/mlops-maturity-model) - MLOps capability evaluation
      - [ML System Design](https://github.com/chiphuyen/machine-learning-systems-design) - System design for ML
      - [Production ML Systems](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/guides/rules-of-ml) - Google's ML engineering rules

  - **Professional Development Goals**
    - Obtain cloud platform certifications (AWS, Azure, GCP)
    - Contribute to open-source MLOps tools and frameworks
    - Build expertise in specific domains (computer vision, NLP, etc.)
    - Lead MLOps transformation initiatives in organizations
    - **Resources:**
      - [AWS ML Specialty Certification](https://aws.amazon.com/certification/certified-machine-learning-specialty/) - AWS ML certification
      - [Azure AI Engineer Certification](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/azure-ai-engineer/) - Azure AI certification
      - [Google Professional ML Engineer](https://cloud.google.com/certification/machine-learning-engineer) - GCP ML certification

## Community and Professional Networks
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **MLOps Communities and Events**
    - Join MLOps community discussions and meetups
    - Participate in conferences and workshops
    - Contribute to open-source MLOps projects
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Community](https://mlops.community/) - Global MLOps community
      - [r/MachineLearning](https://www.reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/) - ML engineering discussions
      - [MLOps World Conference](https://mlopsworld.com/) - MLOps industry conference
      - [Kubeflow Community](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/about/community/) - K8s ML community

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Environment Setup and Exploration**
    - Set up development environment with ML and DevOps tools
    - Create accounts on cloud platforms and MLOps services
    - Complete first end-to-end ML pipeline tutorial
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Environment Setup](https://github.com/DataTalksClub/mlops-zoomcamp/blob/main/01-intro/README.md) - Development environment configuration
      - [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/) - Free ML development environment
      - [MLflow Quickstart](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/quickstart.html) - First MLOps project

  - **Weeks 2-4: Core Skills Development**
    - Build automated ML training pipelines
    - Practice model deployment and containerization
    - Implement basic monitoring and logging
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Tutorial](https://github.com/GokuMohandas/Made-With-ML) - End-to-end MLOps project
      - [Docker ML Tutorial](https://docs.docker.com/language/python/) - Containerizing ML applications
      - [Kubernetes ML Example](https://github.com/kubeflow/examples) - ML on Kubernetes

  - **Month 2-3: Advanced Implementation**
    - Build production-grade ML systems with monitoring
    - Implement Infrastructure as Code for ML infrastructure
    - Practice with real-world MLOps scenarios and case studies
    - **Resources:**
      - [Production ML Systems](https://github.com/eugeneyan/applied-ml) - Real-world ML applications
      - [Terraform ML Infrastructure](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-aws/tree/main/examples) - IaC for ML systems
      - [MLOps Case Studies](https://ml-ops.org/content/case-studies) - Industry MLOps implementations

**Ready to Begin?** Start your MLOps Engineering journey with [Module 1: MLOps Fundamentals](./01-mlops-fundamentals.md) and master the art of operationalizing machine learning systems at scale!

Commit message:

Add beta notices to all learning path getting-started pages
- Add prominent beta notice to top of all 10 learning path getting-started.md files
- Notice encourages community feedback and contributions via Discord and GitHub
- Explains that paths are continuously improved based on user input
- Provides clear channels for feedback: Discord discussions and GitHub PRs/issues
- Maintains transparency about iterative improvement process
- Encourages community participation in content development

Beta notices added to:
- Support Engineering
- Software Engineering
- Data Science
- Linux Engineering
- Cloud Engineering
- AI Engineering
- Machine Learning Engineering
- MLOps Engineering
- DevOps Engineering
- Research Engineering

Promotes open-source collaboration and community-driven improvement

docs/mlops-engineering/getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started with MLOps Engineering

> **🚧 This learning path is in beta!** We're continuously improving our content based on community feedback. Have suggestions, found outdated resources, or want to contribute? 
> - **Discord:** Join our community discussions
> - **GitHub:** Open an issue or submit a pull request to our [repository](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/chasingcloudcareers-site)
> - **Feedback:** Help us make this path even better for future learners!

## MLOps Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Design and implement ML infrastructure and deployment pipelines
    - Automate ML model lifecycle from development to production
    - Ensure scalability, reliability, and monitoring of ML systems
    - Bridge the gap between data science and production engineering
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Engineer Role Guide](https://ml-ops.org/content/mlops-principles) - MLOps principles and practices
      - [What is MLOps? - Google](https://cloud.google.com/architecture/mlops-continuous-delivery-and-automation-pipelines-in-machine-learning) - MLOps overview and architecture
      - [MLOps Maturity Model](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/mlops/mlops-maturity-model) - Microsoft MLOps maturity framework

  - **Career Benefits and Market Demand**
    - High demand with competitive salaries and growth opportunities
    - Work at the intersection of ML, DevOps, and cloud technologies
    - Direct impact on ML model performance and business outcomes
    - Multiple career paths in platform engineering and technical leadership
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Engineer Salary Guide](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/mlops-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,14.htm) - Compensation benchmarks
      - [ML Infrastructure Jobs](https://www.indeed.com/q-Machine-Learning-Infrastructure-jobs.html) - Market demand analysis
      - [MLOps Career Paths](https://neptune.ai/blog/mlops-career-guide) - Career progression in MLOps

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete software engineering and DevOps foundations
    - Understand ML fundamentals and model lifecycle
    - Learn data engineering and pipeline development
    - Master monitoring, security, and infrastructure concepts
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [MLOps Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/machine-learning-engineering-for-production-mlops) - End-to-end MLOps curriculum
      - [Building Machine Learning Pipelines](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/building-machine-learning/9781492053187/) - ML pipeline development

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: MLOps Fundamentals (6-8 weeks) - Core concepts and lifecycle
    - Module 2: ML Pipelines (8-10 weeks) - Automated training and data pipelines
    - Module 3: Model Deployment (8-10 weeks) - Production deployment strategies
    - Module 4: Monitoring and Observability (6-8 weeks) - ML system monitoring
    - Module 5: Infrastructure Automation (10-12 weeks) - Scalable ML infrastructure
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: MLOps Fundamentals](./01-mlops-fundamentals.md) - Begin your MLOps journey
      - [Module 2: ML Pipelines](./02-ml-pipelines.md) - Automated ML workflows
      - [Module 3: Model Deployment](./03-model-deployment.md) - Production deployment

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Software Engineers: 12-16 months focused on ML concepts and data engineering
    - Data Scientists: 10-14 months emphasizing DevOps and infrastructure
    - DevOps Engineers: 8-12 months learning ML lifecycle and model deployment
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Zoomcamp](https://github.com/DataTalksClub/mlops-zoomcamp) - Practical MLOps course
      - [Full Stack Deep Learning](https://fullstackdeeplearning.com/) - Production ML systems
      - [Made With ML](https://madewithml.com/) - MLOps best practices and patterns

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **MLOps Tools and Platforms**
    - MLflow for experiment tracking and model registry
    - Kubeflow for ML workflows on Kubernetes
    - Apache Airflow for pipeline orchestration
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLflow Documentation](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/index.html) - ML lifecycle management
      - [Kubeflow Documentation](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/) - ML workflows on Kubernetes
      - [Apache Airflow Guide](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/tutorial.html) - Workflow orchestration

  - **Cloud ML Platforms**
    - AWS SageMaker for end-to-end ML workflows
    - Azure Machine Learning for enterprise ML
    - Google Cloud AI Platform for scalable ML
    - **Resources:**
      - [AWS SageMaker Developer Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/) - AWS ML platform
      - [Azure Machine Learning Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/) - Azure ML services
      - [Google Cloud AI Platform](https://cloud.google.com/ai-platform/docs) - GCP ML platform

## Essential Tools and Technologies
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Container and Orchestration Platforms**
    - Docker for ML model containerization
    - Kubernetes for ML workload orchestration
    - Helm for Kubernetes application management
    - **Resources:**
      - [Docker for ML](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/) - Containerization fundamentals
      - [Kubernetes for ML Workloads](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/) - K8s ML applications
      - [Helm Documentation](https://helm.sh/docs/) - Kubernetes package manager

  - **Infrastructure as Code Tools**
    - Terraform for multi-cloud ML infrastructure
    - Ansible for configuration management
    - CloudFormation for AWS-specific deployments
    - **Resources:**
      - [Terraform for ML Infrastructure](https://www.terraform.io/docs) - IaC for ML systems
      - [Ansible Automation](https://docs.ansible.com/) - Configuration management
      - [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/) - AWS infrastructure automation

## Industry Applications and Use Cases
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Enterprise ML Deployment Patterns**
    - Batch prediction and real-time inference
    - A/B testing and canary deployments for ML
    - Multi-model serving and model versioning
    - **Resources:**
      - [ML Deployment Patterns](https://martinfowler.com/articles/cd4ml.html) - Continuous delivery for ML
      - [Model Serving Patterns](https://www.jeremyjordan.me/ml-systems-design/) - ML system design patterns
      - [A/B Testing for ML](https://netflixtechblog.com/its-all-a-bout-testing-the-netflix-experimentation-platform-4e1ca458c15) - Netflix experimentation platform

  - **MLOps in Different Industries**
    - Financial services ML compliance and governance
    - Healthcare ML regulatory requirements
    - Retail and e-commerce recommendation systems
    - **Resources:**
      - [ML in Financial Services](https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/files/machine-learning-in-banking-and-finance.pdf) - Fed ML guidance
      - [Healthcare ML Compliance](https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/software-medical-device-samd/artificial-intelligence-and-machine-learning-software-medical-device) - FDA AI/ML guidance
      - [ML at Scale - Uber](https://eng.uber.com/michelangelo-machine-learning-platform/) - Production ML platform

## Success Metrics and Career Progression
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Competency Milestones**
    - Build end-to-end ML pipelines with automated training
    - Deploy ML models with monitoring and observability
    - Implement Infrastructure as Code for ML systems
    - Design scalable and fault-tolerant ML architectures
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Maturity Assessment](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/example-scenario/mlops/mlops-maturity-model) - MLOps capability evaluation
      - [ML System Design](https://github.com/chiphuyen/machine-learning-systems-design) - System design for ML
      - [Production ML Systems](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/guides/rules-of-ml) - Google's ML engineering rules

  - **Professional Development Goals**
    - Obtain cloud platform certifications (AWS, Azure, GCP)
    - Contribute to open-source MLOps tools and frameworks
    - Build expertise in specific domains (computer vision, NLP, etc.)
    - Lead MLOps transformation initiatives in organizations
    - **Resources:**
      - [AWS ML Specialty Certification](https://aws.amazon.com/certification/certified-machine-learning-specialty/) - AWS ML certification
      - [Azure AI Engineer Certification](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/azure-ai-engineer/) - Azure AI certification
      - [Google Professional ML Engineer](https://cloud.google.com/certification/machine-learning-engineer) - GCP ML certification

## Community and Professional Networks
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **MLOps Communities and Events**
    - Join MLOps community discussions and meetups
    - Participate in conferences and workshops
    - Contribute to open-source MLOps projects
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Community](https://mlops.community/) - Global MLOps community
      - [r/MachineLearning](https://www.reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/) - ML engineering discussions
      - [MLOps World Conference](https://mlopsworld.com/) - MLOps industry conference
      - [Kubeflow Community](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/about/community/) - K8s ML community

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Environment Setup and Exploration**
    - Set up development environment with ML and DevOps tools
    - Create accounts on cloud platforms and MLOps services
    - Complete first end-to-end ML pipeline tutorial
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Environment Setup](https://github.com/DataTalksClub/mlops-zoomcamp/blob/main/01-intro/README.md) - Development environment configuration
      - [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/) - Free ML development environment
      - [MLflow Quickstart](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/quickstart.html) - First MLOps project

  - **Weeks 2-4: Core Skills Development**
    - Build automated ML training pipelines
    - Practice model deployment and containerization
    - Implement basic monitoring and logging
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLOps Tutorial](https://github.com/GokuMohandas/Made-With-ML) - End-to-end MLOps project
      - [Docker ML Tutorial](https://docs.docker.com/language/python/) - Containerizing ML applications
      - [Kubernetes ML Example](https://github.com/kubeflow/examples) - ML on Kubernetes

  - **Month 2-3: Advanced Implementation**
    - Build production-grade ML systems with monitoring
    - Implement Infrastructure as Code for ML infrastructure
    - Practice with real-world MLOps scenarios and case studies
    - **Resources:**
      - [Production ML Systems](https://github.com/eugeneyan/applied-ml) - Real-world ML applications
      - [Terraform ML Infrastructure](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-aws/tree/main/examples) - IaC for ML systems
      - [MLOps Case Studies](https://ml-ops.org/content/case-studies) - Industry MLOps implementations

**Ready to Begin?** Start your MLOps Engineering journey with [Module 1: MLOps Fundamentals](./01-mlops-fundamentals.md) and master the art of operationalizing machine learning systems at scale!
