docs/machine-learning-engineering/getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started with Machine Learning Engineering

## Machine Learning Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Design and build machine learning models from scratch
    - Research and implement cutting-edge ML algorithms
    - Optimize model performance and accuracy for specific domains
    - Collaborate with data scientists and software engineers
    - **Resources:**
      - [ML Engineer Role Guide - Google](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/guides/rules-of-ml) - Google's ML engineering best practices
      - [What is a Machine Learning Engineer? - Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/articles/machine-learning-engineer) - Career overview and responsibilities
      - [ML Engineering at Scale - Uber](https://eng.uber.com/machine-learning-platform/) - Real-world ML engineering practices

  - **Career Benefits and Market Demand**
    - High demand with competitive salaries and research opportunities
    - Work on cutting-edge technology and algorithmic innovation
    - Direct impact on product performance and business outcomes
    - Multiple career paths in research, product development, and academia
    - **Resources:**
      - [ML Engineer Salary Guide - Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/machine-learning-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,25.htm) - Compensation benchmarks
      - [ML Job Market Report - Indeed](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/machine-learning-jobs) - Market demand analysis
      - [AI Research Careers](https://80000hours.org/career-reviews/artificial-intelligence-research/) - Research career paths

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete mathematical foundation (linear algebra, calculus, statistics)
    - Master programming and software development practices
    - Understand data science and analytics fundamentals
    - Learn deep learning and neural network concepts
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [Mathematics for Machine Learning](https://mml-book.github.io/) - Mathematical foundations book
      - [Python Machine Learning](https://github.com/rasbt/python-machine-learning-book-3rd-edition) - Practical ML with Python

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: ML Fundamentals (8-10 weeks) - Core algorithms and theory
    - Module 2: Data Engineering (6-8 weeks) - Data pipelines and preprocessing
    - Module 3: Model Development (10-12 weeks) - Advanced model building
    - Module 4: Model Evaluation (6-8 weeks) - Testing and validation
    - Module 5: Advanced Techniques (10-14 weeks) - Research and specialization
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: ML Fundamentals](./01-ml-fundamentals.md) - Begin your ML engineering journey
      - [Module 2: Data Engineering](./02-data-engineering.md) - Data pipeline development
      - [Module 3: Model Development](./03-model-development.md) - Advanced model building

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 18-24 months full curriculum with strong mathematical focus
    - Math/Stats Background: 12-16 months focused on programming and implementation
    - Software Engineers: 14-18 months emphasizing ML theory and mathematics
    - **Resources:**
      - [Fast.ai Practical Deep Learning](https://course.fast.ai/) - Top-down learning approach
      - [CS229 Machine Learning](https://cs229.stanford.edu/) - Stanford's comprehensive ML course
      - [MIT Introduction to Machine Learning](https://openlearninglibrary.mit.edu/courses/course-v1:MITx+6.036+1T2019/about) - Rigorous mathematical approach

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Core ML Libraries and Frameworks**
    - Scikit-learn for traditional machine learning
    - TensorFlow and Keras for deep learning
    - PyTorch for research and experimentation
    - **Resources:**
      - [Scikit-learn User Guide](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/user_guide.html) - Comprehensive ML library documentation
      - [TensorFlow Developer Certificate](https://www.tensorflow.org/certificate) - Professional certification program
      - [PyTorch Tutorials](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/) - Research-oriented deep learning

  - **Specialized ML Domains**
    - Computer vision and image processing
    - Natural language processing and text analysis
    - Time series analysis and forecasting
    - **Resources:**
      - [Computer Vision Course - Stanford](https://cs231n.stanford.edu/) - CS231n deep learning for computer vision
      - [NLP Course - Stanford](https://web.stanford.edu/class/cs224n/) - CS224n natural language processing
      - [Time Series Analysis](https://otexts.com/fpp3/) - Forecasting: Principles and Practice

## Essential Tools and Research Platforms
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Research and Experimentation Tools**
    - Jupyter notebooks for interactive development
    - Google Colab for free GPU computing
    - Papers with Code for implementation references
    - **Resources:**
      - [Jupyter Best Practices](https://jupyter.org/try) - Interactive development environment
      - [Google Colab Tutorial](https://colab.research.google.com/) - Free cloud-based ML environment
      - [Papers with Code](https://paperswithcode.com/) - ML research with implementations

  - **Experiment Tracking and Model Management**
    - MLflow for experiment tracking and model registry
    - Weights & Biases for advanced experiment management
    - DVC for data and model versioning
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLflow Documentation](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/index.html) - ML lifecycle management
      - [Weights & Biases](https://docs.wandb.ai/) - Experiment tracking and visualization
      - [DVC Tutorial](https://dvc.org/doc/start) - Data version control

## Academic and Research Communities
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **ML Research Communities**
    - Join machine learning research conferences and workshops
    - Participate in academic paper discussions and reviews
    - Contribute to open-source ML libraries and research
    - **Resources:**
      - [NeurIPS Conference](https://nips.cc/) - Premier ML research conference
      - [ICML Conference](https://icml.cc/) - International Conference on Machine Learning
      - [ArXiv ML Papers](https://arxiv.org/list/cs.LG/recent) - Latest ML research publications

  - **Professional ML Organizations**
    - IEEE Computer Society and ACM Special Interest Groups
    - Local ML meetups and study groups
    - Industry research labs and internship programs
    - **Resources:**
      - [ACM SIGKDD](https://www.kdd.org/) - Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining
      - [IEEE Computer Society](https://www.computer.org/communities/artificial-intelligence) - AI and ML professional community
      - [ML Twitter Community](https://twitter.com/i/lists/1273623818621140992) - ML researchers and practitioners

## Success Metrics and Career Progression
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Competency Milestones**
    - Implement ML algorithms from scratch using mathematical foundations
    - Design and conduct rigorous ML experiments
    - Publish research or contribute to open-source ML projects
    - Optimize models for accuracy, efficiency, and scalability
    - **Resources:**
      - [ML Algorithm Implementations](https://github.com/rushter/MLAlgorithms) - From-scratch algorithm implementations
      - [ML Research Paper Implementation](https://github.com/labmlai/annotated_deep_learning_paper_implementations) - Research paper implementations
      - [Kaggle Competitions](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions) - Competitive ML problem solving

  - **Research and Publication Goals**
    - Contribute to peer-reviewed ML conferences and journals
    - Develop novel algorithms or improve existing techniques
    - Build expertise in specialized ML domains
    - Mentor others and teach ML concepts
    - **Resources:**
      - [How to Write ML Papers](https://github.com/MLNLP-World/How-to-Write-Papers) - Academic writing for ML
      - [ML Conference Deadlines](https://aideadlin.es/) - Important ML conference submission dates
      - [Reviewing for ML Conferences](https://neurips.cc/Conferences/2023/ReviewerGuidelines) - Peer review guidelines

## Industry Applications and Specializations
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Domain-Specific Applications**
    - Healthcare and medical imaging ML applications
    - Financial modeling and algorithmic trading
    - Autonomous systems and robotics
    - **Resources:**
      - [Medical Image Analysis](https://github.com/Project-MONAI/MONAI) - Medical imaging AI framework
      - [Quantitative Finance ML](https://github.com/stefan-jansen/machine-learning-for-trading) - ML for financial markets
      - [Robotics and Control](https://underactuated.mit.edu/) - MIT robotics and control course

  - **Emerging ML Research Areas**
    - Federated learning and privacy-preserving ML
    - Explainable AI and interpretable machine learning
    - AutoML and neural architecture search
    - **Resources:**
      - [Federated Learning](https://federated.withgoogle.com/) - Google's federated learning research
      - [Interpretable ML](https://christophm.github.io/interpretable-ml-book/) - Model interpretability guide
      - [AutoML Survey](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.00709) - Automated machine learning research

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Foundation Assessment and Setup**
    - Assess mathematical and programming readiness
    - Set up development environment with ML libraries
    - Complete first ML algorithm implementation from scratch
    - **Resources:**
      - [ML Environment Setup](https://github.com/ageron/handson-ml3) - Hands-on ML environment configuration
      - [Linear Regression from Scratch](https://machinelearningmastery.com/implement-linear-regression-stochastic-gradient-descent-scratch-python/) - First algorithm implementation
      - [Python ML Stack](https://scipy.org/install.html) - Scientific Python installation guide

  - **Weeks 2-4: Core Algorithm Implementation**
    - Implement fundamental ML algorithms without libraries
    - Study mathematical derivations and proofs
    - Practice on small datasets with manual feature engineering
    - **Resources:**
      - [Algorithm Implementation Guide](https://github.com/rushter/MLAlgorithms) - ML algorithms from scratch
      - [Mathematical Foundations](https://mml-book.github.io/) - Math for ML with implementations
      - [Small Dataset Practice](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets.php) - UCI ML repository

  - **Month 2-3: Advanced Theory and Research**
    - Read and implement algorithms from research papers
    - Participate in ML competitions and challenges
    - Begin specialization in specific ML domain
    - **Resources:**
      - [Papers with Code](https://paperswithcode.com/sota) - State-of-the-art research implementations
      - [Kaggle Learn](https://www.kaggle.com/learn) - Practical ML skills and competitions
      - [Distill.pub](https://distill.pub/) - Clear explanations of ML research

**Ready to Begin?** Start your Machine Learning Engineering journey with [Module 1: ML Fundamentals](./01-ml-fundamentals.md) and master the mathematical foundations and algorithmic principles of machine learning!

Commit message:

Add beta notices to all learning path getting-started pages
- Add prominent beta notice to top of all 10 learning path getting-started.md files
- Notice encourages community feedback and contributions via Discord and GitHub
- Explains that paths are continuously improved based on user input
- Provides clear channels for feedback: Discord discussions and GitHub PRs/issues
- Maintains transparency about iterative improvement process
- Encourages community participation in content development

Beta notices added to:
- Support Engineering
- Software Engineering
- Data Science
- Linux Engineering
- Cloud Engineering
- AI Engineering
- Machine Learning Engineering
- MLOps Engineering
- DevOps Engineering
- Research Engineering

Promotes open-source collaboration and community-driven improvement

docs/machine-learning-engineering/getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started with Machine Learning Engineering

> **🚧 This learning path is in beta!** We're continuously improving our content based on community feedback. Have suggestions, found outdated resources, or want to contribute? 
> - **Discord:** Join our community discussions
> - **GitHub:** Open an issue or submit a pull request to our [repository](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/chasingcloudcareers-site)
> - **Feedback:** Help us make this path even better for future learners!

## Machine Learning Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Design and build machine learning models from scratch
    - Research and implement cutting-edge ML algorithms
    - Optimize model performance and accuracy for specific domains
    - Collaborate with data scientists and software engineers
    - **Resources:**
      - [ML Engineer Role Guide - Google](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/guides/rules-of-ml) - Google's ML engineering best practices
      - [What is a Machine Learning Engineer? - Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/articles/machine-learning-engineer) - Career overview and responsibilities
      - [ML Engineering at Scale - Uber](https://eng.uber.com/machine-learning-platform/) - Real-world ML engineering practices

  - **Career Benefits and Market Demand**
    - High demand with competitive salaries and research opportunities
    - Work on cutting-edge technology and algorithmic innovation
    - Direct impact on product performance and business outcomes
    - Multiple career paths in research, product development, and academia
    - **Resources:**
      - [ML Engineer Salary Guide - Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/machine-learning-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,25.htm) - Compensation benchmarks
      - [ML Job Market Report - Indeed](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/machine-learning-jobs) - Market demand analysis
      - [AI Research Careers](https://80000hours.org/career-reviews/artificial-intelligence-research/) - Research career paths

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete mathematical foundation (linear algebra, calculus, statistics)
    - Master programming and software development practices
    - Understand data science and analytics fundamentals
    - Learn deep learning and neural network concepts
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [Mathematics for Machine Learning](https://mml-book.github.io/) - Mathematical foundations book
      - [Python Machine Learning](https://github.com/rasbt/python-machine-learning-book-3rd-edition) - Practical ML with Python

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: ML Fundamentals (8-10 weeks) - Core algorithms and theory
    - Module 2: Data Engineering (6-8 weeks) - Data pipelines and preprocessing
    - Module 3: Model Development (10-12 weeks) - Advanced model building
    - Module 4: Model Evaluation (6-8 weeks) - Testing and validation
    - Module 5: Advanced Techniques (10-14 weeks) - Research and specialization
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: ML Fundamentals](./01-ml-fundamentals.md) - Begin your ML engineering journey
      - [Module 2: Data Engineering](./02-data-engineering.md) - Data pipeline development
      - [Module 3: Model Development](./03-model-development.md) - Advanced model building

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 18-24 months full curriculum with strong mathematical focus
    - Math/Stats Background: 12-16 months focused on programming and implementation
    - Software Engineers: 14-18 months emphasizing ML theory and mathematics
    - **Resources:**
      - [Fast.ai Practical Deep Learning](https://course.fast.ai/) - Top-down learning approach
      - [CS229 Machine Learning](https://cs229.stanford.edu/) - Stanford's comprehensive ML course
      - [MIT Introduction to Machine Learning](https://openlearninglibrary.mit.edu/courses/course-v1:MITx+6.036+1T2019/about) - Rigorous mathematical approach

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Core ML Libraries and Frameworks**
    - Scikit-learn for traditional machine learning
    - TensorFlow and Keras for deep learning
    - PyTorch for research and experimentation
    - **Resources:**
      - [Scikit-learn User Guide](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/user_guide.html) - Comprehensive ML library documentation
      - [TensorFlow Developer Certificate](https://www.tensorflow.org/certificate) - Professional certification program
      - [PyTorch Tutorials](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/) - Research-oriented deep learning

  - **Specialized ML Domains**
    - Computer vision and image processing
    - Natural language processing and text analysis
    - Time series analysis and forecasting
    - **Resources:**
      - [Computer Vision Course - Stanford](https://cs231n.stanford.edu/) - CS231n deep learning for computer vision
      - [NLP Course - Stanford](https://web.stanford.edu/class/cs224n/) - CS224n natural language processing
      - [Time Series Analysis](https://otexts.com/fpp3/) - Forecasting: Principles and Practice

## Essential Tools and Research Platforms
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Research and Experimentation Tools**
    - Jupyter notebooks for interactive development
    - Google Colab for free GPU computing
    - Papers with Code for implementation references
    - **Resources:**
      - [Jupyter Best Practices](https://jupyter.org/try) - Interactive development environment
      - [Google Colab Tutorial](https://colab.research.google.com/) - Free cloud-based ML environment
      - [Papers with Code](https://paperswithcode.com/) - ML research with implementations

  - **Experiment Tracking and Model Management**
    - MLflow for experiment tracking and model registry
    - Weights & Biases for advanced experiment management
    - DVC for data and model versioning
    - **Resources:**
      - [MLflow Documentation](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/index.html) - ML lifecycle management
      - [Weights & Biases](https://docs.wandb.ai/) - Experiment tracking and visualization
      - [DVC Tutorial](https://dvc.org/doc/start) - Data version control

## Academic and Research Communities
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **ML Research Communities**
    - Join machine learning research conferences and workshops
    - Participate in academic paper discussions and reviews
    - Contribute to open-source ML libraries and research
    - **Resources:**
      - [NeurIPS Conference](https://nips.cc/) - Premier ML research conference
      - [ICML Conference](https://icml.cc/) - International Conference on Machine Learning
      - [ArXiv ML Papers](https://arxiv.org/list/cs.LG/recent) - Latest ML research publications

  - **Professional ML Organizations**
    - IEEE Computer Society and ACM Special Interest Groups
    - Local ML meetups and study groups
    - Industry research labs and internship programs
    - **Resources:**
      - [ACM SIGKDD](https://www.kdd.org/) - Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining
      - [IEEE Computer Society](https://www.computer.org/communities/artificial-intelligence) - AI and ML professional community
      - [ML Twitter Community](https://twitter.com/i/lists/1273623818621140992) - ML researchers and practitioners

## Success Metrics and Career Progression
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Competency Milestones**
    - Implement ML algorithms from scratch using mathematical foundations
    - Design and conduct rigorous ML experiments
    - Publish research or contribute to open-source ML projects
    - Optimize models for accuracy, efficiency, and scalability
    - **Resources:**
      - [ML Algorithm Implementations](https://github.com/rushter/MLAlgorithms) - From-scratch algorithm implementations
      - [ML Research Paper Implementation](https://github.com/labmlai/annotated_deep_learning_paper_implementations) - Research paper implementations
      - [Kaggle Competitions](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions) - Competitive ML problem solving

  - **Research and Publication Goals**
    - Contribute to peer-reviewed ML conferences and journals
    - Develop novel algorithms or improve existing techniques
    - Build expertise in specialized ML domains
    - Mentor others and teach ML concepts
    - **Resources:**
      - [How to Write ML Papers](https://github.com/MLNLP-World/How-to-Write-Papers) - Academic writing for ML
      - [ML Conference Deadlines](https://aideadlin.es/) - Important ML conference submission dates
      - [Reviewing for ML Conferences](https://neurips.cc/Conferences/2023/ReviewerGuidelines) - Peer review guidelines

## Industry Applications and Specializations
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Domain-Specific Applications**
    - Healthcare and medical imaging ML applications
    - Financial modeling and algorithmic trading
    - Autonomous systems and robotics
    - **Resources:**
      - [Medical Image Analysis](https://github.com/Project-MONAI/MONAI) - Medical imaging AI framework
      - [Quantitative Finance ML](https://github.com/stefan-jansen/machine-learning-for-trading) - ML for financial markets
      - [Robotics and Control](https://underactuated.mit.edu/) - MIT robotics and control course

  - **Emerging ML Research Areas**
    - Federated learning and privacy-preserving ML
    - Explainable AI and interpretable machine learning
    - AutoML and neural architecture search
    - **Resources:**
      - [Federated Learning](https://federated.withgoogle.com/) - Google's federated learning research
      - [Interpretable ML](https://christophm.github.io/interpretable-ml-book/) - Model interpretability guide
      - [AutoML Survey](https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.00709) - Automated machine learning research

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Foundation Assessment and Setup**
    - Assess mathematical and programming readiness
    - Set up development environment with ML libraries
    - Complete first ML algorithm implementation from scratch
    - **Resources:**
      - [ML Environment Setup](https://github.com/ageron/handson-ml3) - Hands-on ML environment configuration
      - [Linear Regression from Scratch](https://machinelearningmastery.com/implement-linear-regression-stochastic-gradient-descent-scratch-python/) - First algorithm implementation
      - [Python ML Stack](https://scipy.org/install.html) - Scientific Python installation guide

  - **Weeks 2-4: Core Algorithm Implementation**
    - Implement fundamental ML algorithms without libraries
    - Study mathematical derivations and proofs
    - Practice on small datasets with manual feature engineering
    - **Resources:**
      - [Algorithm Implementation Guide](https://github.com/rushter/MLAlgorithms) - ML algorithms from scratch
      - [Mathematical Foundations](https://mml-book.github.io/) - Math for ML with implementations
      - [Small Dataset Practice](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets.php) - UCI ML repository

  - **Month 2-3: Advanced Theory and Research**
    - Read and implement algorithms from research papers
    - Participate in ML competitions and challenges
    - Begin specialization in specific ML domain
    - **Resources:**
      - [Papers with Code](https://paperswithcode.com/sota) - State-of-the-art research implementations
      - [Kaggle Learn](https://www.kaggle.com/learn) - Practical ML skills and competitions
      - [Distill.pub](https://distill.pub/) - Clear explanations of ML research

**Ready to Begin?** Start your Machine Learning Engineering journey with [Module 1: ML Fundamentals](./01-ml-fundamentals.md) and master the mathematical foundations and algorithmic principles of machine learning!
