docs/linux-engineering/getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Getting Started with Linux Engineering

## Linux Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Design, implement, and maintain Linux-based systems and infrastructure
    - Automate system administration tasks and deployment processes
    - Troubleshoot complex system issues and optimize performance
    - Ensure security, reliability, and scalability of Linux environments
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux System Administrator Career Guide - Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/blog/linux-system-administrator-career-guide) - Comprehensive career overview and responsibilities
      - [What Does a Linux Engineer Do? - Red Hat](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/what-does-a-linux-engineer-do) - Role definition and daily responsibilities
      - [Linux Jobs Report - Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/resources/publications/linux-jobs-report) - Industry trends and career opportunities

  - **Career Benefits and Opportunities**
    - High demand across industries (cloud computing, DevOps, cybersecurity, embedded systems)
    - Competitive salaries and strong job security in technology sector
    - Opportunities to work with cutting-edge technologies and open-source projects
    - Clear career progression paths from junior to senior and specialized roles
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Career Paths - CompTIA](https://www.comptia.org/blog/your-next-move-linux-career-paths) - Career progression and specialization options
      - [Linux Salary Guide - PayScale](https://www.payscale.com/research/US/Job=Linux_System_Administrator/Salary) - Compensation benchmarks and trends
      - [Open Source Jobs Report - Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/resources/publications/open-source-jobs-report) - Market demand and opportunities

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete computer literacy and basic networking knowledge
    - Develop problem-solving skills and logical thinking abilities
    - Build security awareness and understanding of system concepts
    - Establish learning mindset and time management skills
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [Linux Basics for Beginners - freeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/the-linux-commands-handbook/) - Essential Linux concepts overview
      - [Introduction to Linux - Linux Foundation](https://www.edx.org/learn/linux/the-linux-foundation-introduction-to-linux) - Free comprehensive Linux course

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: Linux Fundamentals (6-8 weeks) - Command line, file systems, and basic operations
    - Module 2: System Administration (8-10 weeks) - User management, processes, and system configuration
    - Module 3: Shell Scripting and Automation (6-8 weeks) - Bash scripting and task automation
    - Module 4: Networking and Security (8-10 weeks) - Network configuration and security hardening
    - Module 5: Server Management and DevOps (10-12 weeks) - Web servers, databases, and deployment
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: Linux Fundamentals](./01-linux-fundamentals.md) - Begin your Linux journey
      - [Module 2: System Administration](./02-system-administration.md) - Master system management
      - [Module 3: Shell Scripting and Automation](./03-shell-scripting.md) - Automate tasks with scripts

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 12-15 months full curriculum with emphasis on fundamentals
    - IT Professionals: 8-10 months focused on Linux-specific skills and advanced topics
    - Developers: 6-8 months emphasizing scripting, automation, and DevOps practices
    - Career Changers: 10-12 months comprehensive path with portfolio development
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Learning Roadmap - roadmap.sh](https://roadmap.sh/linux) - Visual learning path and skill progression
      - [Linux Professional Institute Certification](https://www.lpi.org/our-certifications/lpic-1-overview) - Industry-standard certification path
      - [Red Hat Learning Paths](https://www.redhat.com/en/services/training-and-certification) - Enterprise-focused skill development

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Industry Certifications and Training**
    - Linux Professional Institute (LPI) certifications for vendor-neutral skills
    - Red Hat certifications for enterprise Linux expertise
    - CompTIA Linux+ for foundational knowledge validation
    - **Resources:**
      - [LPI Certification Overview](https://www.lpi.org/our-certifications) - Vendor-neutral Linux certifications
      - [Red Hat Certification Paths](https://www.redhat.com/en/services/certifications) - Enterprise Linux certifications
      - [CompTIA Linux+ Study Materials](https://www.comptia.org/certifications/linux) - Foundational Linux certification
      - [Free Linux Training - Linux Academy](https://linuxacademy.com/library/search/?q=free) - Various Linux topics and courses

  - **Practice Environments and Labs**
    - Set up virtual machines for hands-on Linux practice
    - Use online labs and interactive environments for skill development
    - Build home lab environments for advanced experimentation
    - **Resources:**
      - [VirtualBox Setup Guide](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) - Free virtualization for Linux practice
      - [Katacoda Interactive Scenarios](https://www.katacoda.com/courses/linux) - Browser-based Linux practice environments
      - [Linux Journey Interactive Learning](https://linuxjourney.com/) - Hands-on Linux learning platform
      - [OverTheWire Linux Challenges](https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/) - Progressive Linux skill challenges

## Community and Professional Networks
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Linux Communities and Forums**
    - Join active Linux communities for learning and networking
    - Participate in open-source projects and contribute to Linux ecosystem
    - Attend local Linux user groups and technology meetups
    - **Resources:**
      - [r/linux Community](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/) - Large Linux discussion community
      - [Linux Questions Forum](https://www.linuxquestions.org/) - Comprehensive Linux support forum
      - [Local Linux User Groups](https://www.linux.org/forums/linux-user-groups.122/) - Find local Linux communities
      - [Linux Foundation Events](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/) - Professional conferences and networking

  - **Open Source Contribution**
    - Learn Git and GitHub for version control and collaboration
    - Contribute to documentation, bug reports, and code improvements
    - Build portfolio through open-source project participation
    - **Resources:**
      - [Git Tutorial - Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials) - Comprehensive Git learning resource
      - [GitHub Skills](https://skills.github.com/) - Interactive GitHub learning courses
      - [First Contributions Guide](https://firstcontributions.github.io/) - Step-by-step guide to first open-source contribution
      - [Good First Issues](https://goodfirstissues.com/) - Beginner-friendly open-source projects

## Hands-On Practice and Projects
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Practice Projects**
    - Set up and configure various Linux distributions
    - Build and manage web servers and databases
    - Create automation scripts for system administration tasks
    - Implement security hardening and monitoring solutions
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Project Ideas - GitHub](https://github.com/karan/Projects) - Programming and system administration projects
      - [Awesome Linux Resources](https://github.com/inputsh/awesome-linux) - Curated list of Linux learning resources
      - [Linux Upskill Challenge](https://linuxupskillchallenge.org/) - 20-day hands-on Linux learning challenge
      - [Linux From Scratch](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/) - Advanced project to build Linux from source

  - **Portfolio Development**
    - Document learning journey and project implementations
    - Create GitHub repositories showcasing Linux skills and scripts
    - Build personal blog or website demonstrating expertise
    - **Resources:**
      - [Technical Portfolio Guide - freeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-build-a-developer-portfolio-website/) - Building effective technical portfolios
      - [GitHub Portfolio Examples](https://github.com/topics/portfolio) - Examples of technical portfolios on GitHub
      - [Technical Blog Writing - Dev.to](https://dev.to/t/beginners) - Platform for sharing technical knowledge

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1-2: Environment Setup and Orientation**
    - Complete prerequisites assessment and fill any knowledge gaps
    - Set up practice environment with virtual machines
    - Install multiple Linux distributions for hands-on experience
    - Join Linux communities and bookmark essential resources
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Distribution Comparison](https://distrowatch.com/) - Compare different Linux distributions
      - [VirtualBox Tutorial - Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/how-to-run-ubuntu-desktop-on-a-virtual-machine-using-virtualbox) - Step-by-step VM setup
      - [Linux Community Guidelines](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/process/code-of-conduct.html) - Understanding Linux community culture

  - **Week 3-4: Foundation Building**
    - Begin Module 1: Linux Fundamentals with daily practice
    - Set up regular study schedule (minimum 1-2 hours daily)
    - Start documenting learning progress and command references
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Command Cheat Sheet](https://www.linuxtrainingacademy.com/linux-commands-cheat-sheet/) - Essential command reference
      - [Study Schedule Template - Notion](https://www.notion.so/templates/study-schedule) - Learning schedule organization
      - [Learning Journal Template](https://www.evernote.com/shard/s302/sh/c6b3ea3c-9c3e-4c5e-b6a7-8b9c5d2e1f0a/note) - Track progress and insights

  - **Month 2-3: Skill Development and Practice**
    - Progress through system administration and scripting modules
    - Complete hands-on projects and document solutions
    - Begin contributing to open-source projects or documentation
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Project Tutorials - DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials?q=linux) - Step-by-step Linux project guides
      - [Bash Scripting Tutorial - Linux Config](https://linuxconfig.org/bash-scripting-tutorial-for-beginners) - Comprehensive scripting guide
      - [Open Source Contribution Guide](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/) - Getting started with contributions

## Success Metrics and Milestones
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Skill Benchmarks**
    - Comfortable navigating Linux command line and file systems
    - Ability to install, configure, and troubleshoot Linux systems
    - Proficiency in shell scripting and task automation
    - Understanding of networking, security, and server management
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Skills Assessment - Linux Academy](https://linuxacademy.com/library/linux-skills-assessment/) - Self-assessment tools
      - [LPIC-1 Exam Objectives](https://www.lpi.org/our-certifications/exam-101-objectives) - Industry skill standards
      - [Linux Competency Matrix](https://sijinjoseph.com/programmer-competency-matrix/) - Skill level evaluation framework

  - **Professional Development Goals**
    - Build portfolio of Linux projects and contributions
    - Obtain relevant certifications (LPI, Red Hat, CompTIA)
    - Establish professional network within Linux community
    - Secure internship, entry-level position, or career advancement
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Career Roadmap](https://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/linux-career-path.html) - Professional development planning
      - [Technical Interview Preparation](https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer) - System design and Linux concepts
      - [LinkedIn Learning - Linux](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/topics/linux) - Professional skill development courses

## Essential Tools and Software
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Development and Administration Tools**
    - Text editors (vim, nano, emacs) for configuration and scripting
    - Version control systems (Git) for code and configuration management
    - Monitoring tools (htop, iotop, netstat) for system analysis
    - **Resources:**
      - [Vim Tutorial - OpenVim](https://www.openvim.com/) - Interactive vim editor tutorial
      - [Git Handbook - GitHub](https://guides.github.com/introduction/git-handbook/) - Git version control fundamentals
      - [Linux System Monitoring Tools](https://www.tecmint.com/command-line-tools-to-monitor-linux-performance/) - Essential monitoring utilities

  - **Virtualization and Cloud Platforms**
    - Virtualization software (VirtualBox, VMware) for practice environments
    - Cloud platforms (AWS, Azure, GCP) for scalable Linux deployments
    - Container technologies (Docker, Podman) for modern application deployment
    - **Resources:**
      - [Docker Tutorial - Docker](https://www.docker.com/101-tutorial) - Container technology fundamentals
      - [AWS Linux Instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EC2_GetStarted.html) - Cloud Linux deployment
      - [Kubernetes Basics](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/) - Container orchestration fundamentals

**Ready to Begin?** Start your Linux Engineering journey with [Module 1: Linux Fundamentals](./01-linux-fundamentals.md) and transform your technical career through mastery of the world's most powerful operating system!

Commit message:

Add beta notices to all learning path getting-started pages
- Add prominent beta notice to top of all 10 learning path getting-started.md files
- Notice encourages community feedback and contributions via Discord and GitHub
- Explains that paths are continuously improved based on user input
- Provides clear channels for feedback: Discord discussions and GitHub PRs/issues
- Maintains transparency about iterative improvement process
- Encourages community participation in content development

Beta notices added to:
- Support Engineering
- Software Engineering
- Data Science
- Linux Engineering
- Cloud Engineering
- AI Engineering
- Machine Learning Engineering
- MLOps Engineering
- DevOps Engineering
- Research Engineering

Promotes open-source collaboration and community-driven improvement

docs/linux-engineering/getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Getting Started with Linux Engineering

> **🚧 This learning path is in beta!** We're continuously improving our content based on community feedback. Have suggestions, found outdated resources, or want to contribute? 
> - **Discord:** Join our community discussions
> - **GitHub:** Open an issue or submit a pull request to our [repository](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/chasingcloudcareers-site)
> - **Feedback:** Help us make this path even better for future learners!

## Linux Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Design, implement, and maintain Linux-based systems and infrastructure
    - Automate system administration tasks and deployment processes
    - Troubleshoot complex system issues and optimize performance
    - Ensure security, reliability, and scalability of Linux environments
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux System Administrator Career Guide - Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/blog/blog/linux-system-administrator-career-guide) - Comprehensive career overview and responsibilities
      - [What Does a Linux Engineer Do? - Red Hat](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/linux/what-does-a-linux-engineer-do) - Role definition and daily responsibilities
      - [Linux Jobs Report - Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/resources/publications/linux-jobs-report) - Industry trends and career opportunities

  - **Career Benefits and Opportunities**
    - High demand across industries (cloud computing, DevOps, cybersecurity, embedded systems)
    - Competitive salaries and strong job security in technology sector
    - Opportunities to work with cutting-edge technologies and open-source projects
    - Clear career progression paths from junior to senior and specialized roles
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Career Paths - CompTIA](https://www.comptia.org/blog/your-next-move-linux-career-paths) - Career progression and specialization options
      - [Linux Salary Guide - PayScale](https://www.payscale.com/research/US/Job=Linux_System_Administrator/Salary) - Compensation benchmarks and trends
      - [Open Source Jobs Report - Linux Foundation](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/resources/publications/open-source-jobs-report) - Market demand and opportunities

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete computer literacy and basic networking knowledge
    - Develop problem-solving skills and logical thinking abilities
    - Build security awareness and understanding of system concepts
    - Establish learning mindset and time management skills
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [Linux Basics for Beginners - freeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/the-linux-commands-handbook/) - Essential Linux concepts overview
      - [Introduction to Linux - Linux Foundation](https://www.edx.org/learn/linux/the-linux-foundation-introduction-to-linux) - Free comprehensive Linux course

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: Linux Fundamentals (6-8 weeks) - Command line, file systems, and basic operations
    - Module 2: System Administration (8-10 weeks) - User management, processes, and system configuration
    - Module 3: Shell Scripting and Automation (6-8 weeks) - Bash scripting and task automation
    - Module 4: Networking and Security (8-10 weeks) - Network configuration and security hardening
    - Module 5: Server Management and DevOps (10-12 weeks) - Web servers, databases, and deployment
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: Linux Fundamentals](./01-linux-fundamentals.md) - Begin your Linux journey
      - [Module 2: System Administration](./02-system-administration.md) - Master system management
      - [Module 3: Shell Scripting and Automation](./03-shell-scripting.md) - Automate tasks with scripts

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 12-15 months full curriculum with emphasis on fundamentals
    - IT Professionals: 8-10 months focused on Linux-specific skills and advanced topics
    - Developers: 6-8 months emphasizing scripting, automation, and DevOps practices
    - Career Changers: 10-12 months comprehensive path with portfolio development
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Learning Roadmap - roadmap.sh](https://roadmap.sh/linux) - Visual learning path and skill progression
      - [Linux Professional Institute Certification](https://www.lpi.org/our-certifications/lpic-1-overview) - Industry-standard certification path
      - [Red Hat Learning Paths](https://www.redhat.com/en/services/training-and-certification) - Enterprise-focused skill development

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Industry Certifications and Training**
    - Linux Professional Institute (LPI) certifications for vendor-neutral skills
    - Red Hat certifications for enterprise Linux expertise
    - CompTIA Linux+ for foundational knowledge validation
    - **Resources:**
      - [LPI Certification Overview](https://www.lpi.org/our-certifications) - Vendor-neutral Linux certifications
      - [Red Hat Certification Paths](https://www.redhat.com/en/services/certifications) - Enterprise Linux certifications
      - [CompTIA Linux+ Study Materials](https://www.comptia.org/certifications/linux) - Foundational Linux certification
      - [Free Linux Training - Linux Academy](https://linuxacademy.com/library/search/?q=free) - Various Linux topics and courses

  - **Practice Environments and Labs**
    - Set up virtual machines for hands-on Linux practice
    - Use online labs and interactive environments for skill development
    - Build home lab environments for advanced experimentation
    - **Resources:**
      - [VirtualBox Setup Guide](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) - Free virtualization for Linux practice
      - [Katacoda Interactive Scenarios](https://www.katacoda.com/courses/linux) - Browser-based Linux practice environments
      - [Linux Journey Interactive Learning](https://linuxjourney.com/) - Hands-on Linux learning platform
      - [OverTheWire Linux Challenges](https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/) - Progressive Linux skill challenges

## Community and Professional Networks
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Linux Communities and Forums**
    - Join active Linux communities for learning and networking
    - Participate in open-source projects and contribute to Linux ecosystem
    - Attend local Linux user groups and technology meetups
    - **Resources:**
      - [r/linux Community](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux/) - Large Linux discussion community
      - [Linux Questions Forum](https://www.linuxquestions.org/) - Comprehensive Linux support forum
      - [Local Linux User Groups](https://www.linux.org/forums/linux-user-groups.122/) - Find local Linux communities
      - [Linux Foundation Events](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/) - Professional conferences and networking

  - **Open Source Contribution**
    - Learn Git and GitHub for version control and collaboration
    - Contribute to documentation, bug reports, and code improvements
    - Build portfolio through open-source project participation
    - **Resources:**
      - [Git Tutorial - Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials) - Comprehensive Git learning resource
      - [GitHub Skills](https://skills.github.com/) - Interactive GitHub learning courses
      - [First Contributions Guide](https://firstcontributions.github.io/) - Step-by-step guide to first open-source contribution
      - [Good First Issues](https://goodfirstissues.com/) - Beginner-friendly open-source projects

## Hands-On Practice and Projects
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Practice Projects**
    - Set up and configure various Linux distributions
    - Build and manage web servers and databases
    - Create automation scripts for system administration tasks
    - Implement security hardening and monitoring solutions
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Project Ideas - GitHub](https://github.com/karan/Projects) - Programming and system administration projects
      - [Awesome Linux Resources](https://github.com/inputsh/awesome-linux) - Curated list of Linux learning resources
      - [Linux Upskill Challenge](https://linuxupskillchallenge.org/) - 20-day hands-on Linux learning challenge
      - [Linux From Scratch](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/) - Advanced project to build Linux from source

  - **Portfolio Development**
    - Document learning journey and project implementations
    - Create GitHub repositories showcasing Linux skills and scripts
    - Build personal blog or website demonstrating expertise
    - **Resources:**
      - [Technical Portfolio Guide - freeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-build-a-developer-portfolio-website/) - Building effective technical portfolios
      - [GitHub Portfolio Examples](https://github.com/topics/portfolio) - Examples of technical portfolios on GitHub
      - [Technical Blog Writing - Dev.to](https://dev.to/t/beginners) - Platform for sharing technical knowledge

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1-2: Environment Setup and Orientation**
    - Complete prerequisites assessment and fill any knowledge gaps
    - Set up practice environment with virtual machines
    - Install multiple Linux distributions for hands-on experience
    - Join Linux communities and bookmark essential resources
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Distribution Comparison](https://distrowatch.com/) - Compare different Linux distributions
      - [VirtualBox Tutorial - Ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/how-to-run-ubuntu-desktop-on-a-virtual-machine-using-virtualbox) - Step-by-step VM setup
      - [Linux Community Guidelines](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/process/code-of-conduct.html) - Understanding Linux community culture

  - **Week 3-4: Foundation Building**
    - Begin Module 1: Linux Fundamentals with daily practice
    - Set up regular study schedule (minimum 1-2 hours daily)
    - Start documenting learning progress and command references
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Command Cheat Sheet](https://www.linuxtrainingacademy.com/linux-commands-cheat-sheet/) - Essential command reference
      - [Study Schedule Template - Notion](https://www.notion.so/templates/study-schedule) - Learning schedule organization
      - [Learning Journal Template](https://www.evernote.com/shard/s302/sh/c6b3ea3c-9c3e-4c5e-b6a7-8b9c5d2e1f0a/note) - Track progress and insights

  - **Month 2-3: Skill Development and Practice**
    - Progress through system administration and scripting modules
    - Complete hands-on projects and document solutions
    - Begin contributing to open-source projects or documentation
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Project Tutorials - DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials?q=linux) - Step-by-step Linux project guides
      - [Bash Scripting Tutorial - Linux Config](https://linuxconfig.org/bash-scripting-tutorial-for-beginners) - Comprehensive scripting guide
      - [Open Source Contribution Guide](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/) - Getting started with contributions

## Success Metrics and Milestones
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Skill Benchmarks**
    - Comfortable navigating Linux command line and file systems
    - Ability to install, configure, and troubleshoot Linux systems
    - Proficiency in shell scripting and task automation
    - Understanding of networking, security, and server management
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Skills Assessment - Linux Academy](https://linuxacademy.com/library/linux-skills-assessment/) - Self-assessment tools
      - [LPIC-1 Exam Objectives](https://www.lpi.org/our-certifications/exam-101-objectives) - Industry skill standards
      - [Linux Competency Matrix](https://sijinjoseph.com/programmer-competency-matrix/) - Skill level evaluation framework

  - **Professional Development Goals**
    - Build portfolio of Linux projects and contributions
    - Obtain relevant certifications (LPI, Red Hat, CompTIA)
    - Establish professional network within Linux community
    - Secure internship, entry-level position, or career advancement
    - **Resources:**
      - [Linux Career Roadmap](https://www.cyberciti.biz/tips/linux-career-path.html) - Professional development planning
      - [Technical Interview Preparation](https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer) - System design and Linux concepts
      - [LinkedIn Learning - Linux](https://www.linkedin.com/learning/topics/linux) - Professional skill development courses

## Essential Tools and Software
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Development and Administration Tools**
    - Text editors (vim, nano, emacs) for configuration and scripting
    - Version control systems (Git) for code and configuration management
    - Monitoring tools (htop, iotop, netstat) for system analysis
    - **Resources:**
      - [Vim Tutorial - OpenVim](https://www.openvim.com/) - Interactive vim editor tutorial
      - [Git Handbook - GitHub](https://guides.github.com/introduction/git-handbook/) - Git version control fundamentals
      - [Linux System Monitoring Tools](https://www.tecmint.com/command-line-tools-to-monitor-linux-performance/) - Essential monitoring utilities

  - **Virtualization and Cloud Platforms**
    - Virtualization software (VirtualBox, VMware) for practice environments
    - Cloud platforms (AWS, Azure, GCP) for scalable Linux deployments
    - Container technologies (Docker, Podman) for modern application deployment
    - **Resources:**
      - [Docker Tutorial - Docker](https://www.docker.com/101-tutorial) - Container technology fundamentals
      - [AWS Linux Instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/EC2_GetStarted.html) - Cloud Linux deployment
      - [Kubernetes Basics](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/) - Container orchestration fundamentals

**Ready to Begin?** Start your Linux Engineering journey with [Module 1: Linux Fundamentals](./01-linux-fundamentals.md) and transform your technical career through mastery of the world's most powerful operating system!
