docs/ai-engineering/getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started with AI Engineering

## AI Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Build AI-powered applications using existing models and APIs
    - Integrate machine learning capabilities into software products
    - Design user interfaces and experiences for AI applications
    - Optimize AI application performance and user experience
    - **Resources:**
      - [AI Engineer Role Guide - Google](https://ai.google/education/ai-for-everyone/) - AI engineering career overview
      - [What is an AI Engineer? - IBM](https://www.ibm.com/topics/ai-engineer) - AI engineering responsibilities and skills
      - [AI Engineering Best Practices](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/guides/rules-of-ml) - Google's ML engineering guidelines

  - **Career Benefits and Market Demand**
    - High demand with competitive salaries and growth opportunities
    - Work with cutting-edge technology and innovation
    - Direct impact on user experience and business outcomes
    - Multiple career paths in product development and technical leadership
    - **Resources:**
      - [AI Engineer Salary Guide - Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/ai-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,11.htm) - Compensation benchmarks and trends
      - [AI Job Market Report - Indeed](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/artificial-intelligence-jobs) - Market demand and opportunities
      - [Remote AI Jobs - AngelList](https://angel.co/jobs) - Startup and remote AI opportunities

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete programming foundation (Python, JavaScript, web development)
    - Understand mathematics and statistics basics
    - Learn data handling and API integration
    - Develop cloud computing and AI/ML concept knowledge
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [Python for AI Development](https://realpython.com/learning-paths/python-ai-machine-learning/) - Python skills for AI
      - [JavaScript for AI Applications](https://www.tensorflow.org/js) - TensorFlow.js for web AI

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: AI Fundamentals (4-6 weeks) - Core concepts and frameworks
    - Module 2: LLM Integration (6-8 weeks) - Language models and prompt engineering
    - Module 3: Computer Vision (6-8 weeks) - Image processing and vision APIs
    - Module 4: AI Application Development (8-10 weeks) - Full-stack AI applications
    - Module 5: Production Deployment (6-8 weeks) - Scaling and monitoring AI systems
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: AI Fundamentals](./01-ai-fundamentals.md) - Begin your AI engineering journey
      - [Module 2: LLM Integration](./02-llm-integration.md) - Language model integration
      - [Module 3: Computer Vision](./03-computer-vision.md) - Vision AI applications

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 12-18 months full curriculum with strong programming focus
    - Experienced Developers: 8-12 months focused on AI integration and deployment
    - Data Scientists: 6-10 months transitioning to application development
    - **Resources:**
      - [AI for Developers - Microsoft](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/get-started-with-artificial-intelligence-on-azure/) - AI development learning path
      - [Machine Learning for Software Engineers](https://github.com/ZuzooVn/machine-learning-for-software-engineers) - ML concepts for developers
      - [Full Stack Deep Learning](https://fullstackdeeplearning.com/) - Production ML systems course

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **AI and ML Frameworks**
    - TensorFlow and Keras for deep learning
    - PyTorch for research and development
    - Scikit-learn for traditional machine learning
    - **Resources:**
      - [TensorFlow Tutorials](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials) - Complete TensorFlow learning guide
      - [PyTorch Tutorials](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/) - PyTorch fundamentals and advanced topics
      - [Scikit-learn User Guide](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/user_guide.html) - Machine learning library documentation

  - **AI APIs and Services**
    - OpenAI API for language models
    - Google Cloud AI and Vision APIs
    - AWS AI services and SageMaker
    - **Resources:**
      - [OpenAI API Documentation](https://platform.openai.com/docs) - GPT and language model APIs
      - [Google Cloud AI APIs](https://cloud.google.com/products/ai) - Vision, language, and ML APIs
      - [AWS AI Services](https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/ai-services/) - Pre-built AI capabilities

## Essential Tools and Platforms
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Development Environment Setup**
    - Python development with Jupyter notebooks
    - VS Code with AI/ML extensions
    - Git and GitHub for version control
    - **Resources:**
      - [Jupyter Notebook Tutorial](https://jupyter.org/try) - Interactive development environment
      - [VS Code for Data Science](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/datascience/overview) - IDE setup for AI development
      - [GitHub for Data Science](https://github.com/skills/introduction-to-github) - Version control for AI projects

  - **Cloud Platforms and Deployment**
    - Google Colab for free GPU computing
    - Hugging Face for model hosting and sharing
    - Streamlit and Gradio for AI app prototyping
    - **Resources:**
      - [Google Colab Tutorial](https://colab.research.google.com/) - Free cloud-based Jupyter environment
      - [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/index) - Model repository and deployment
      - [Streamlit Documentation](https://docs.streamlit.io/) - Rapid AI app development
      - [Gradio Documentation](https://gradio.app/docs/) - ML model interfaces

## Community and Professional Networks
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **AI and ML Communities**
    - Join active AI engineering communities for networking and learning
    - Participate in hackathons and AI competitions
    - Contribute to open-source AI projects
    - **Resources:**
      - [r/MachineLearning](https://www.reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/) - ML research and engineering discussions
      - [AI/ML Twitter Community](https://twitter.com/i/lists/1273623818621140992) - AI researchers and practitioners
      - [Kaggle Community](https://www.kaggle.com/learn) - Data science competitions and learning
      - [Papers with Code](https://paperswithcode.com/) - ML research and implementations

## Success Metrics and Career Progression
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Competency Milestones**
    - Build and deploy AI-powered web applications
    - Integrate multiple AI APIs and services
    - Optimize AI application performance and user experience
    - Implement monitoring and feedback systems for AI applications
    - **Resources:**
      - [AI Project Portfolio Ideas](https://github.com/ashishpatel26/500-AI-Machine-learning-Deep-learning-Computer-vision-NLP-Projects-with-code) - Project inspiration and examples
      - [ML System Design](https://github.com/chiphuyen/machine-learning-systems-design) - System design for ML applications
      - [AI Product Management](https://www.coursera.org/learn/ai-product-management-duke) - Product thinking for AI

  - **Professional Development Goals**
    - Build portfolio of AI applications and case studies
    - Contribute to open-source AI tools and libraries
    - Develop expertise in specific AI domains (NLP, computer vision, etc.)
    - Mentor others and share knowledge through content creation
    - **Resources:**
      - [AI Portfolio Examples](https://github.com/topics/ai-portfolio) - Portfolio project examples
      - [Technical Blogging for AI](https://towardsdatascience.com/) - Platform for sharing AI knowledge
      - [AI Conference Speaking](https://github.com/chiphuyen/ml-conferences) - Conference and meetup opportunities

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Environment Setup and Exploration**
    - Set up Python development environment with AI libraries
    - Create accounts on AI platforms (OpenAI, Hugging Face, Google Colab)
    - Complete first AI tutorial and build simple application
    - **Resources:**
      - [Python AI Environment Setup](https://realpython.com/python-ai-neural-network/) - Development environment configuration
      - [First AI Project Tutorial](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/quickstart/beginner) - TensorFlow quickstart
      - [OpenAI API Quickstart](https://platform.openai.com/docs/quickstart) - First API integration

  - **Weeks 2-4: Core Skills Development**
    - Complete AI fundamentals training and hands-on exercises
    - Build first AI application using pre-trained models
    - Learn prompt engineering and API integration techniques
    - **Resources:**
      - [AI Fundamentals Course](https://www.elementsofai.com/) - University of Helsinki AI course
      - [Prompt Engineering Guide](https://www.promptingguide.ai/) - Effective prompt design
      - [Pre-trained Model Hub](https://huggingface.co/models) - Ready-to-use AI models

  - **Month 2-3: Practical Application**
    - Build portfolio projects demonstrating AI integration skills
    - Deploy AI applications to cloud platforms
    - Implement user feedback and monitoring systems
    - **Resources:**
      - [Streamlit Gallery](https://streamlit.io/gallery) - AI application examples and inspiration
      - [Heroku AI Deployment](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/python-ml-model-deploy) - Cloud deployment guide
      - [AI Application Monitoring](https://docs.wandb.ai/) - Experiment tracking and monitoring

**Ready to Begin?** Start your AI Engineering journey with [Module 1: AI Fundamentals](./01-ai-fundamentals.md) and learn to build intelligent applications that transform user experiences!

Commit message:

Add beta notices to all learning path getting-started pages
- Add prominent beta notice to top of all 10 learning path getting-started.md files
- Notice encourages community feedback and contributions via Discord and GitHub
- Explains that paths are continuously improved based on user input
- Provides clear channels for feedback: Discord discussions and GitHub PRs/issues
- Maintains transparency about iterative improvement process
- Encourages community participation in content development

Beta notices added to:
- Support Engineering
- Software Engineering
- Data Science
- Linux Engineering
- Cloud Engineering
- AI Engineering
- Machine Learning Engineering
- MLOps Engineering
- DevOps Engineering
- Research Engineering

Promotes open-source collaboration and community-driven improvement

docs/ai-engineering/getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started with AI Engineering

> **🚧 This learning path is in beta!** We're continuously improving our content based on community feedback. Have suggestions, found outdated resources, or want to contribute? 
> - **Discord:** Join our community discussions
> - **GitHub:** Open an issue or submit a pull request to our [repository](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/chasingcloudcareers-site)
> - **Feedback:** Help us make this path even better for future learners!

## AI Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Build AI-powered applications using existing models and APIs
    - Integrate machine learning capabilities into software products
    - Design user interfaces and experiences for AI applications
    - Optimize AI application performance and user experience
    - **Resources:**
      - [AI Engineer Role Guide - Google](https://ai.google/education/ai-for-everyone/) - AI engineering career overview
      - [What is an AI Engineer? - IBM](https://www.ibm.com/topics/ai-engineer) - AI engineering responsibilities and skills
      - [AI Engineering Best Practices](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/guides/rules-of-ml) - Google's ML engineering guidelines

  - **Career Benefits and Market Demand**
    - High demand with competitive salaries and growth opportunities
    - Work with cutting-edge technology and innovation
    - Direct impact on user experience and business outcomes
    - Multiple career paths in product development and technical leadership
    - **Resources:**
      - [AI Engineer Salary Guide - Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/ai-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,11.htm) - Compensation benchmarks and trends
      - [AI Job Market Report - Indeed](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/artificial-intelligence-jobs) - Market demand and opportunities
      - [Remote AI Jobs - AngelList](https://angel.co/jobs) - Startup and remote AI opportunities

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete programming foundation (Python, JavaScript, web development)
    - Understand mathematics and statistics basics
    - Learn data handling and API integration
    - Develop cloud computing and AI/ML concept knowledge
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [Python for AI Development](https://realpython.com/learning-paths/python-ai-machine-learning/) - Python skills for AI
      - [JavaScript for AI Applications](https://www.tensorflow.org/js) - TensorFlow.js for web AI

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: AI Fundamentals (4-6 weeks) - Core concepts and frameworks
    - Module 2: LLM Integration (6-8 weeks) - Language models and prompt engineering
    - Module 3: Computer Vision (6-8 weeks) - Image processing and vision APIs
    - Module 4: AI Application Development (8-10 weeks) - Full-stack AI applications
    - Module 5: Production Deployment (6-8 weeks) - Scaling and monitoring AI systems
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: AI Fundamentals](./01-ai-fundamentals.md) - Begin your AI engineering journey
      - [Module 2: LLM Integration](./02-llm-integration.md) - Language model integration
      - [Module 3: Computer Vision](./03-computer-vision.md) - Vision AI applications

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 12-18 months full curriculum with strong programming focus
    - Experienced Developers: 8-12 months focused on AI integration and deployment
    - Data Scientists: 6-10 months transitioning to application development
    - **Resources:**
      - [AI for Developers - Microsoft](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/paths/get-started-with-artificial-intelligence-on-azure/) - AI development learning path
      - [Machine Learning for Software Engineers](https://github.com/ZuzooVn/machine-learning-for-software-engineers) - ML concepts for developers
      - [Full Stack Deep Learning](https://fullstackdeeplearning.com/) - Production ML systems course

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **AI and ML Frameworks**
    - TensorFlow and Keras for deep learning
    - PyTorch for research and development
    - Scikit-learn for traditional machine learning
    - **Resources:**
      - [TensorFlow Tutorials](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials) - Complete TensorFlow learning guide
      - [PyTorch Tutorials](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/) - PyTorch fundamentals and advanced topics
      - [Scikit-learn User Guide](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/user_guide.html) - Machine learning library documentation

  - **AI APIs and Services**
    - OpenAI API for language models
    - Google Cloud AI and Vision APIs
    - AWS AI services and SageMaker
    - **Resources:**
      - [OpenAI API Documentation](https://platform.openai.com/docs) - GPT and language model APIs
      - [Google Cloud AI APIs](https://cloud.google.com/products/ai) - Vision, language, and ML APIs
      - [AWS AI Services](https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/ai-services/) - Pre-built AI capabilities

## Essential Tools and Platforms
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Development Environment Setup**
    - Python development with Jupyter notebooks
    - VS Code with AI/ML extensions
    - Git and GitHub for version control
    - **Resources:**
      - [Jupyter Notebook Tutorial](https://jupyter.org/try) - Interactive development environment
      - [VS Code for Data Science](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/datascience/overview) - IDE setup for AI development
      - [GitHub for Data Science](https://github.com/skills/introduction-to-github) - Version control for AI projects

  - **Cloud Platforms and Deployment**
    - Google Colab for free GPU computing
    - Hugging Face for model hosting and sharing
    - Streamlit and Gradio for AI app prototyping
    - **Resources:**
      - [Google Colab Tutorial](https://colab.research.google.com/) - Free cloud-based Jupyter environment
      - [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/index) - Model repository and deployment
      - [Streamlit Documentation](https://docs.streamlit.io/) - Rapid AI app development
      - [Gradio Documentation](https://gradio.app/docs/) - ML model interfaces

## Community and Professional Networks
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **AI and ML Communities**
    - Join active AI engineering communities for networking and learning
    - Participate in hackathons and AI competitions
    - Contribute to open-source AI projects
    - **Resources:**
      - [r/MachineLearning](https://www.reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/) - ML research and engineering discussions
      - [AI/ML Twitter Community](https://twitter.com/i/lists/1273623818621140992) - AI researchers and practitioners
      - [Kaggle Community](https://www.kaggle.com/learn) - Data science competitions and learning
      - [Papers with Code](https://paperswithcode.com/) - ML research and implementations

## Success Metrics and Career Progression
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Competency Milestones**
    - Build and deploy AI-powered web applications
    - Integrate multiple AI APIs and services
    - Optimize AI application performance and user experience
    - Implement monitoring and feedback systems for AI applications
    - **Resources:**
      - [AI Project Portfolio Ideas](https://github.com/ashishpatel26/500-AI-Machine-learning-Deep-learning-Computer-vision-NLP-Projects-with-code) - Project inspiration and examples
      - [ML System Design](https://github.com/chiphuyen/machine-learning-systems-design) - System design for ML applications
      - [AI Product Management](https://www.coursera.org/learn/ai-product-management-duke) - Product thinking for AI

  - **Professional Development Goals**
    - Build portfolio of AI applications and case studies
    - Contribute to open-source AI tools and libraries
    - Develop expertise in specific AI domains (NLP, computer vision, etc.)
    - Mentor others and share knowledge through content creation
    - **Resources:**
      - [AI Portfolio Examples](https://github.com/topics/ai-portfolio) - Portfolio project examples
      - [Technical Blogging for AI](https://towardsdatascience.com/) - Platform for sharing AI knowledge
      - [AI Conference Speaking](https://github.com/chiphuyen/ml-conferences) - Conference and meetup opportunities

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Environment Setup and Exploration**
    - Set up Python development environment with AI libraries
    - Create accounts on AI platforms (OpenAI, Hugging Face, Google Colab)
    - Complete first AI tutorial and build simple application
    - **Resources:**
      - [Python AI Environment Setup](https://realpython.com/python-ai-neural-network/) - Development environment configuration
      - [First AI Project Tutorial](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials/quickstart/beginner) - TensorFlow quickstart
      - [OpenAI API Quickstart](https://platform.openai.com/docs/quickstart) - First API integration

  - **Weeks 2-4: Core Skills Development**
    - Complete AI fundamentals training and hands-on exercises
    - Build first AI application using pre-trained models
    - Learn prompt engineering and API integration techniques
    - **Resources:**
      - [AI Fundamentals Course](https://www.elementsofai.com/) - University of Helsinki AI course
      - [Prompt Engineering Guide](https://www.promptingguide.ai/) - Effective prompt design
      - [Pre-trained Model Hub](https://huggingface.co/models) - Ready-to-use AI models

  - **Month 2-3: Practical Application**
    - Build portfolio projects demonstrating AI integration skills
    - Deploy AI applications to cloud platforms
    - Implement user feedback and monitoring systems
    - **Resources:**
      - [Streamlit Gallery](https://streamlit.io/gallery) - AI application examples and inspiration
      - [Heroku AI Deployment](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/python-ml-model-deploy) - Cloud deployment guide
      - [AI Application Monitoring](https://docs.wandb.ai/) - Experiment tracking and monitoring

**Ready to Begin?** Start your AI Engineering journey with [Module 1: AI Fundamentals](./01-ai-fundamentals.md) and learn to build intelligent applications that transform user experiences!
