docs/data-science/getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started with Data Science

## Data Science Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Extract insights and patterns from complex datasets
    - Build predictive models and statistical analyses
    - Communicate findings to stakeholders and drive business decisions
    - Design experiments and measure impact of data-driven initiatives
    - **Resources:**
      - [What is Data Science? - IBM](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/learn/data-science-introduction) - Comprehensive data science overview
      - [Data Scientist Role Guide](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/what-does-a-data-scientist-do) - Career responsibilities and expectations
      - [Harvard Business Review Data Science](https://hbr.org/2012/10/data-scientist-the-sexiest-job-of-the-21st-century) - Data science in business context

  - **Career Benefits and Market Demand**
    - High demand with competitive salaries and growth opportunities
    - Work across diverse industries and problem domains
    - Direct impact on business strategy and decision-making
    - Multiple career paths in analytics, research, and product development
    - **Resources:**
      - [Data Scientist Salary Guide](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/data-scientist-salary-SRCH_KO0,14.htm) - Compensation benchmarks and trends
      - [Data Science Job Market](https://www.bls.gov/ooh/math/mathematicians-and-statisticians.htm) - Bureau of Labor Statistics outlook
      - [Remote Data Science Jobs](https://remoteok.io/remote-data-science-jobs) - Remote opportunities in data science

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete mathematical foundations (statistics, linear algebra, calculus)
    - Master programming skills with focus on Python and data libraries
    - Develop research and analytical thinking capabilities
    - Build communication and business understanding skills
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [Data Science Math Skills](https://www.coursera.org/learn/datasciencemathskills) - Duke University math for data science
      - [Python for Data Science](https://www.edx.org/learn/python/harvard-university-introduction-to-programming-with-python) - Harvard programming course

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: Statistics and Mathematics (8-12 weeks) - Statistical foundations and mathematical concepts
    - Module 2: Data Analysis (8-10 weeks) - Data manipulation, cleaning, and exploration
    - Module 3: Machine Learning (10-14 weeks) - Predictive modeling and algorithms
    - Module 4: Data Visualization (6-8 weeks) - Data storytelling and communication
    - Module 5: Advanced Analytics (10-12 weeks) - Specialized techniques and domain applications
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: Statistics and Mathematics](./01-statistics-mathematics.md) - Begin your data science journey
      - [Module 2: Data Analysis](./02-data-analysis.md) - Data manipulation and exploration
      - [Module 3: Machine Learning](./03-machine-learning.md) - Predictive modeling

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 18-24 months full curriculum with strong mathematical focus
    - Math/Stats Background: 12-16 months focused on programming and applications
    - Programming Background: 14-18 months emphasizing statistics and domain expertise
    - **Resources:**
      - [IBM Data Science Certificate](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/ibm-data-science) - Complete data science program
      - [Google Data Analytics Certificate](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/google-data-analytics) - Google career certificate
      - [Harvard Data Science](https://www.edx.org/professional-certificate/harvardx-data-science) - Harvard professional certificate

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Core Data Science Tools**
    - Python ecosystem (NumPy, Pandas, Scikit-learn)
    - R programming for statistical analysis
    - SQL for database querying and data extraction
    - **Resources:**
      - [Python Data Science Stack](https://scipy.org/getting-started.html) - Scientific Python ecosystem
      - [R for Data Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/) - Comprehensive R programming guide
      - [SQL for Data Science](https://www.kaggle.com/learn/intro-to-sql) - Kaggle SQL course

  - **Machine Learning and Statistical Modeling**
    - Scikit-learn for machine learning algorithms
    - Statistical modeling with statsmodels
    - Deep learning with TensorFlow and PyTorch
    - **Resources:**
      - [Scikit-learn User Guide](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/user_guide.html) - Machine learning library documentation
      - [Statsmodels](https://www.statsmodels.org/stable/gettingstarted.html) - Statistical modeling in Python
      - [TensorFlow for Data Science](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials) - Deep learning framework

## Essential Skills and Competencies
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Data Collection and Acquisition**
    - Web scraping and API integration
    - Database querying and data extraction
    - Survey design and data collection methods
    - **Resources:**
      - [Web Scraping with Python](https://realpython.com/python-web-scraping-practical-introduction/) - Data extraction techniques
      - [SQL Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/) - Database querying fundamentals
      - [Survey Design](https://www.coursera.org/learn/survey-data-collection) - University of Michigan survey methodology

  - **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)**
    - Data profiling and quality assessment
    - Statistical summaries and distribution analysis
    - Correlation analysis and pattern identification
    - **Resources:**
      - [Exploratory Data Analysis](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/exploratory-data-analysis.html) - R4DS EDA chapter
      - [Python EDA Guide](https://www.kaggle.com/learn/data-visualization) - Kaggle data visualization course
      - [Statistical Data Analysis](https://online.stat.psu.edu/stat500/) - Penn State applied statistics

## Industry Applications and Use Cases
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Business Analytics Applications**
    - Customer analytics and segmentation
    - Marketing analytics and campaign optimization
    - Financial modeling and risk analysis
    - **Resources:**
      - [Customer Analytics](https://www.coursera.org/learn/customer-analytics) - University of Pennsylvania customer analytics
      - [Marketing Analytics](https://www.coursera.org/learn/marketing-analytics) - University of Virginia marketing analytics
      - [Financial Analytics](https://www.edx.org/learn/finance/massachusetts-institute-of-technology-introduction-to-finance-and-accounting) - MIT financial analysis

  - **Healthcare and Scientific Applications**
    - Biostatistics and clinical trial analysis
    - Epidemiological studies and public health
    - Scientific research and academic applications
    - **Resources:**
      - [Biostatistics](https://www.coursera.org/learn/biostatistics) - Johns Hopkins biostatistics course
      - [Epidemiology](https://www.coursera.org/learn/epidemiology) - University of North Carolina epidemiology
      - [Research Data Analysis](https://www.edx.org/learn/data-analysis) - Academic data analysis methods

## Success Metrics and Career Progression
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Competency Milestones**
    - Complete end-to-end data science projects
    - Build and evaluate predictive models
    - Create compelling data visualizations and reports
    - Design and analyze experiments with statistical rigor
    - **Resources:**
      - [Data Science Portfolio](https://www.kaggle.com/learn/data-science) - Building a professional portfolio
      - [Project Portfolio Examples](https://github.com/datasciencemasters/data) - Data science project ideas
      - [Kaggle Competitions](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions) - Competitive data science practice

  - **Professional Development Goals**
    - Obtain industry-recognized certifications
    - Contribute to open-source data science projects
    - Develop expertise in specific domains or methodologies
    - Build thought leadership through content creation
    - **Resources:**
      - [Google Data Analytics Certificate](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/google-data-analytics) - Industry-recognized certification
      - [Open Source Data Science](https://github.com/academic/awesome-datascience) - Open-source project opportunities
      - [Data Science Blogging](https://towardsdatascience.com/) - Platform for sharing data science knowledge

## Community and Professional Networks
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Data Science Communities**
    - Join data science meetups and professional organizations
    - Participate in online communities and forums
    - Attend conferences and workshops for networking
    - **Resources:**
      - [Data Science Community](https://www.kaggle.com/community) - Kaggle data science community
      - [r/datascience](https://www.reddit.com/r/datascience/) - Reddit data science discussions
      - [Local Data Science Meetups](https://www.meetup.com/topics/data-science/) - In-person networking events
      - [KDnuggets](https://www.kdnuggets.com/) - Data science news and resources

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Foundation Setup and Assessment**
    - Complete prerequisite assessment and identify learning gaps
    - Set up Python data science environment
    - Complete first data analysis tutorial
    - **Resources:**
      - [Anaconda Installation](https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/install/) - Data science environment setup
      - [First Data Science Project](https://www.kaggle.com/learn/pandas) - Kaggle pandas tutorial
      - [Jupyter Notebook Basics](https://jupyter-notebook.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) - Interactive development environment

  - **Weeks 2-4: Core Skills Development**
    - Learn statistical concepts and hypothesis testing
    - Practice data manipulation and cleaning techniques
    - Complete exploratory data analysis projects
    - **Resources:**
      - [Statistics Fundamentals](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/statistics-probability) - Statistical concepts and applications
      - [Data Cleaning Tutorial](https://realpython.com/python-data-cleaning-numpy-pandas/) - Practical data cleaning
      - [EDA Projects](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets) - Practice datasets for exploration

  - **Month 2-3: Applied Projects and Specialization**
    - Build machine learning models for prediction
    - Create data visualizations and reports
    - Choose specialization area and deepen expertise
    - **Resources:**
      - [Machine Learning Projects](https://www.kaggle.com/learn/machine-learning) - Practical ML implementation
      - [Data Visualization Gallery](https://www.python-graph-gallery.com/) - Visualization examples and code
      - [Domain Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/browse/data-science) - Industry-specific data science applications

**Ready to Begin?** Start your Data Science journey with [Module 1: Statistics and Mathematics](./01-statistics-mathematics.md) and build the analytical foundation for extracting insights from data!

Commit message:

Add beta notices to all learning path getting-started pages
- Add prominent beta notice to top of all 10 learning path getting-started.md files
- Notice encourages community feedback and contributions via Discord and GitHub
- Explains that paths are continuously improved based on user input
- Provides clear channels for feedback: Discord discussions and GitHub PRs/issues
- Maintains transparency about iterative improvement process
- Encourages community participation in content development

Beta notices added to:
- Support Engineering
- Software Engineering
- Data Science
- Linux Engineering
- Cloud Engineering
- AI Engineering
- Machine Learning Engineering
- MLOps Engineering
- DevOps Engineering
- Research Engineering

Promotes open-source collaboration and community-driven improvement

docs/data-science/getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started with Data Science

> **🚧 This learning path is in beta!** We're continuously improving our content based on community feedback. Have suggestions, found outdated resources, or want to contribute? 
> - **Discord:** Join our community discussions
> - **GitHub:** Open an issue or submit a pull request to our [repository](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/chasingcloudcareers-site)
> - **Feedback:** Help us make this path even better for future learners!

## Data Science Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Extract insights and patterns from complex datasets
    - Build predictive models and statistical analyses
    - Communicate findings to stakeholders and drive business decisions
    - Design experiments and measure impact of data-driven initiatives
    - **Resources:**
      - [What is Data Science? - IBM](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/learn/data-science-introduction) - Comprehensive data science overview
      - [Data Scientist Role Guide](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/what-does-a-data-scientist-do) - Career responsibilities and expectations
      - [Harvard Business Review Data Science](https://hbr.org/2012/10/data-scientist-the-sexiest-job-of-the-21st-century) - Data science in business context

  - **Career Benefits and Market Demand**
    - High demand with competitive salaries and growth opportunities
    - Work across diverse industries and problem domains
    - Direct impact on business strategy and decision-making
    - Multiple career paths in analytics, research, and product development
    - **Resources:**
      - [Data Scientist Salary Guide](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/data-scientist-salary-SRCH_KO0,14.htm) - Compensation benchmarks and trends
      - [Data Science Job Market](https://www.bls.gov/ooh/math/mathematicians-and-statisticians.htm) - Bureau of Labor Statistics outlook
      - [Remote Data Science Jobs](https://remoteok.io/remote-data-science-jobs) - Remote opportunities in data science

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete mathematical foundations (statistics, linear algebra, calculus)
    - Master programming skills with focus on Python and data libraries
    - Develop research and analytical thinking capabilities
    - Build communication and business understanding skills
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [Data Science Math Skills](https://www.coursera.org/learn/datasciencemathskills) - Duke University math for data science
      - [Python for Data Science](https://www.edx.org/learn/python/harvard-university-introduction-to-programming-with-python) - Harvard programming course

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: Statistics and Mathematics (8-12 weeks) - Statistical foundations and mathematical concepts
    - Module 2: Data Analysis (8-10 weeks) - Data manipulation, cleaning, and exploration
    - Module 3: Machine Learning (10-14 weeks) - Predictive modeling and algorithms
    - Module 4: Data Visualization (6-8 weeks) - Data storytelling and communication
    - Module 5: Advanced Analytics (10-12 weeks) - Specialized techniques and domain applications
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: Statistics and Mathematics](./01-statistics-mathematics.md) - Begin your data science journey
      - [Module 2: Data Analysis](./02-data-analysis.md) - Data manipulation and exploration
      - [Module 3: Machine Learning](./03-machine-learning.md) - Predictive modeling

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 18-24 months full curriculum with strong mathematical focus
    - Math/Stats Background: 12-16 months focused on programming and applications
    - Programming Background: 14-18 months emphasizing statistics and domain expertise
    - **Resources:**
      - [IBM Data Science Certificate](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/ibm-data-science) - Complete data science program
      - [Google Data Analytics Certificate](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/google-data-analytics) - Google career certificate
      - [Harvard Data Science](https://www.edx.org/professional-certificate/harvardx-data-science) - Harvard professional certificate

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Core Data Science Tools**
    - Python ecosystem (NumPy, Pandas, Scikit-learn)
    - R programming for statistical analysis
    - SQL for database querying and data extraction
    - **Resources:**
      - [Python Data Science Stack](https://scipy.org/getting-started.html) - Scientific Python ecosystem
      - [R for Data Science](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/) - Comprehensive R programming guide
      - [SQL for Data Science](https://www.kaggle.com/learn/intro-to-sql) - Kaggle SQL course

  - **Machine Learning and Statistical Modeling**
    - Scikit-learn for machine learning algorithms
    - Statistical modeling with statsmodels
    - Deep learning with TensorFlow and PyTorch
    - **Resources:**
      - [Scikit-learn User Guide](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/user_guide.html) - Machine learning library documentation
      - [Statsmodels](https://www.statsmodels.org/stable/gettingstarted.html) - Statistical modeling in Python
      - [TensorFlow for Data Science](https://www.tensorflow.org/tutorials) - Deep learning framework

## Essential Skills and Competencies
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Data Collection and Acquisition**
    - Web scraping and API integration
    - Database querying and data extraction
    - Survey design and data collection methods
    - **Resources:**
      - [Web Scraping with Python](https://realpython.com/python-web-scraping-practical-introduction/) - Data extraction techniques
      - [SQL Tutorial](https://www.w3schools.com/sql/) - Database querying fundamentals
      - [Survey Design](https://www.coursera.org/learn/survey-data-collection) - University of Michigan survey methodology

  - **Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA)**
    - Data profiling and quality assessment
    - Statistical summaries and distribution analysis
    - Correlation analysis and pattern identification
    - **Resources:**
      - [Exploratory Data Analysis](https://r4ds.had.co.nz/exploratory-data-analysis.html) - R4DS EDA chapter
      - [Python EDA Guide](https://www.kaggle.com/learn/data-visualization) - Kaggle data visualization course
      - [Statistical Data Analysis](https://online.stat.psu.edu/stat500/) - Penn State applied statistics

## Industry Applications and Use Cases
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Business Analytics Applications**
    - Customer analytics and segmentation
    - Marketing analytics and campaign optimization
    - Financial modeling and risk analysis
    - **Resources:**
      - [Customer Analytics](https://www.coursera.org/learn/customer-analytics) - University of Pennsylvania customer analytics
      - [Marketing Analytics](https://www.coursera.org/learn/marketing-analytics) - University of Virginia marketing analytics
      - [Financial Analytics](https://www.edx.org/learn/finance/massachusetts-institute-of-technology-introduction-to-finance-and-accounting) - MIT financial analysis

  - **Healthcare and Scientific Applications**
    - Biostatistics and clinical trial analysis
    - Epidemiological studies and public health
    - Scientific research and academic applications
    - **Resources:**
      - [Biostatistics](https://www.coursera.org/learn/biostatistics) - Johns Hopkins biostatistics course
      - [Epidemiology](https://www.coursera.org/learn/epidemiology) - University of North Carolina epidemiology
      - [Research Data Analysis](https://www.edx.org/learn/data-analysis) - Academic data analysis methods

## Success Metrics and Career Progression
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Competency Milestones**
    - Complete end-to-end data science projects
    - Build and evaluate predictive models
    - Create compelling data visualizations and reports
    - Design and analyze experiments with statistical rigor
    - **Resources:**
      - [Data Science Portfolio](https://www.kaggle.com/learn/data-science) - Building a professional portfolio
      - [Project Portfolio Examples](https://github.com/datasciencemasters/data) - Data science project ideas
      - [Kaggle Competitions](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions) - Competitive data science practice

  - **Professional Development Goals**
    - Obtain industry-recognized certifications
    - Contribute to open-source data science projects
    - Develop expertise in specific domains or methodologies
    - Build thought leadership through content creation
    - **Resources:**
      - [Google Data Analytics Certificate](https://www.coursera.org/professional-certificates/google-data-analytics) - Industry-recognized certification
      - [Open Source Data Science](https://github.com/academic/awesome-datascience) - Open-source project opportunities
      - [Data Science Blogging](https://towardsdatascience.com/) - Platform for sharing data science knowledge

## Community and Professional Networks
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Data Science Communities**
    - Join data science meetups and professional organizations
    - Participate in online communities and forums
    - Attend conferences and workshops for networking
    - **Resources:**
      - [Data Science Community](https://www.kaggle.com/community) - Kaggle data science community
      - [r/datascience](https://www.reddit.com/r/datascience/) - Reddit data science discussions
      - [Local Data Science Meetups](https://www.meetup.com/topics/data-science/) - In-person networking events
      - [KDnuggets](https://www.kdnuggets.com/) - Data science news and resources

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Foundation Setup and Assessment**
    - Complete prerequisite assessment and identify learning gaps
    - Set up Python data science environment
    - Complete first data analysis tutorial
    - **Resources:**
      - [Anaconda Installation](https://docs.anaconda.com/anaconda/install/) - Data science environment setup
      - [First Data Science Project](https://www.kaggle.com/learn/pandas) - Kaggle pandas tutorial
      - [Jupyter Notebook Basics](https://jupyter-notebook.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) - Interactive development environment

  - **Weeks 2-4: Core Skills Development**
    - Learn statistical concepts and hypothesis testing
    - Practice data manipulation and cleaning techniques
    - Complete exploratory data analysis projects
    - **Resources:**
      - [Statistics Fundamentals](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/statistics-probability) - Statistical concepts and applications
      - [Data Cleaning Tutorial](https://realpython.com/python-data-cleaning-numpy-pandas/) - Practical data cleaning
      - [EDA Projects](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets) - Practice datasets for exploration

  - **Month 2-3: Applied Projects and Specialization**
    - Build machine learning models for prediction
    - Create data visualizations and reports
    - Choose specialization area and deepen expertise
    - **Resources:**
      - [Machine Learning Projects](https://www.kaggle.com/learn/machine-learning) - Practical ML implementation
      - [Data Visualization Gallery](https://www.python-graph-gallery.com/) - Visualization examples and code
      - [Domain Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/browse/data-science) - Industry-specific data science applications

**Ready to Begin?** Start your Data Science journey with [Module 1: Statistics and Mathematics](./01-statistics-mathematics.md) and build the analytical foundation for extracting insights from data!
