docs/support-engineering/getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Getting Started with Support Engineering

## Support Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Bridge technology and customer success through technical problem-solving
    - Communicate technical concepts clearly to technical and non-technical audiences
    - Drive customer success through proactive support and relationship management
    - Collaborate with engineering teams to improve product quality and reliability
    - **Resources:**
      - [Support Engineering Handbook - GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/support/) - Real-world support practices and methodologies
      - [Customer Service Excellence - HubSpot](https://blog.hubspot.com/service) - Customer service best practices and strategies
      - [The Support Driven Community](https://supportdriven.com/) - Global support professional network and resources

  - **Career Benefits and Opportunities**
    - Direct customer impact helping businesses succeed and grow
    - Technical growth working with cutting-edge technologies and complex systems
    - Strong market demand with competitive compensation and remote-friendly opportunities
    - Multiple advancement paths in technical leadership, management, and entrepreneurship
    - **Resources:**
      - [Support Career Paths - Support Driven](https://supportdriven.com/resources/career-paths/) - Career progression guidance
      - [Tech Support Salary Guide - Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/technical-support-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,26.htm) - Compensation benchmarks
      - [Remote Support Jobs - We Work Remotely](https://weworkremotely.com/categories/remote-customer-support-jobs) - Remote opportunities

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete technical foundation requirements (computer literacy, command line, networking)
    - Develop communication skills (professional communication, customer service, active listening)
    - Build problem-solving abilities (critical thinking, systematic troubleshooting, research skills)
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [CompTIA A+ Free Training - Professor Messer](https://www.professormesser.com/free-a-plus-training/) - Complete IT fundamentals course
      - [Customer Service Fundamentals - HubSpot Academy](https://academy.hubspot.com/courses/customer-service) - Free certification course

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: Support Fundamentals (4-6 weeks) - Core principles and communication
    - Module 2: Technical Foundations (6-8 weeks) - Operating systems, networking, databases
    - Module 3: Advanced Troubleshooting (6-8 weeks) - Debugging, performance, security
    - Module 4: Customer Success (4-6 weeks) - Relationship management and business communication
    - Module 5: Career Development (Ongoing) - Leadership and professional advancement
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: Support Fundamentals](./01-support-fundamentals.md) - Begin your learning journey
      - [Module 2: Technical Foundations](./02-technical-foundations.md) - Build technical expertise
      - [Module 3: Advanced Troubleshooting](./03-advanced-troubleshooting.md) - Master complex problem-solving

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 6-9 months full curriculum with focus on fundamentals
    - Experienced IT Professionals: 4-6 months focused on customer success and advanced skills
    - Support Engineers Seeking Advancement: 3-4 months strategic development for leadership
    - **Resources:**
      - [IT Support Fundamentals - Google](https://www.coursera.org/learn/technical-support-fundamentals) - Google Career Certificate program
      - [Linux Command Line - freeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/) - Technical skills development
      - [Site Reliability Engineering - Google](https://sre.google/books/) - Advanced technical practices

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Professional Certification Training**
    - CompTIA A+, Network+, and Security+ fundamentals for IT support
    - Industry-recognized certifications for career advancement
    - Free training resources and study materials available
    - **Resources:**
      - [CompTIA A+ Training - Professor Messer](https://www.professormesser.com/free-a-plus-training/) - Complete A+ certification preparation
      - [CompTIA Network+ Training - Professor Messer](https://www.professormesser.com/network-plus/) - Networking fundamentals for support engineers
      - [CompTIA Security+ Training - Professor Messer](https://www.professormesser.com/security-plus/) - Security fundamentals and best practices
      - [Professor Messer Study Groups](https://www.professormesser.com/study-groups/) - Live monthly Q&A sessions

  - **Practice Environments and Tools**
    - Set up virtualization and containerization for hands-on practice
    - Version control and portfolio development platforms
    - API testing and development tools
    - **Resources:**
      - [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) - Free virtualization for practice labs
      - [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) - Containerization and modern application deployment
      - [GitHub](https://github.com/) - Version control practice and portfolio development
      - [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) - API testing and development tools

## Community and Networking
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Professional Communities**
    - Join active support engineering communities for networking and learning
    - Participate in discussions and knowledge sharing
    - Access mentorship and career guidance opportunities
    - **Resources:**
      - [Support Driven Slack](https://supportdriven.com/) - 15,000+ support professionals community
      - [r/CustomerService](https://www.reddit.com/r/CustomerService/) - Reddit community discussions and advice
      - [LinkedIn Support Groups](https://www.linkedin.com/) - Professional networking and job opportunities
      - [Local Tech Meetups](https://www.meetup.com/) - In-person networking and learning events

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Foundation Setup**
    - Join professional communities and set up learning environment
    - Create dedicated learning schedule (10-15 hours per week)
    - Review prerequisites and begin Module 1
    - **Resources:**
      - [Support Driven Community](https://supportdriven.com/) - Join the global support network
      - [VirtualBox Setup Guide](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) - Practice environment setup
      - [Learning Schedule Template](https://www.notion.so/) - Time management and planning tools

  - **Weeks 2-4: Core Skills Development**
    - Complete communication exercises and troubleshooting practice
    - Set up documentation system and connect with professionals
    - Begin technical foundation building with hands-on projects
    - **Resources:**
      - [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/) - Documentation formatting reference
      - [Technical Writing Course - Google](https://developers.google.com/tech-writing) - Professional documentation skills
      - [GitHub Learning Lab](https://lab.github.com/) - Version control and collaboration practice

**Ready to Begin?** Start your Support Engineering journey with [Module 1: Support Fundamentals](./01-support-fundamentals.md) and transform your career in technical customer success!

Commit message:

Add beta notices to all learning path getting-started pages
- Add prominent beta notice to top of all 10 learning path getting-started.md files
- Notice encourages community feedback and contributions via Discord and GitHub
- Explains that paths are continuously improved based on user input
- Provides clear channels for feedback: Discord discussions and GitHub PRs/issues
- Maintains transparency about iterative improvement process
- Encourages community participation in content development

Beta notices added to:
- Support Engineering
- Software Engineering
- Data Science
- Linux Engineering
- Cloud Engineering
- AI Engineering
- Machine Learning Engineering
- MLOps Engineering
- DevOps Engineering
- Research Engineering

Promotes open-source collaboration and community-driven improvement

docs/support-engineering/getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Getting Started with Support Engineering

> **🚧 This learning path is in beta!** We're continuously improving our content based on community feedback. Have suggestions, found outdated resources, or want to contribute? 
> - **Discord:** Join our community discussions
> - **GitHub:** Open an issue or submit a pull request to our [repository](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/chasingcloudcareers-site)
> - **Feedback:** Help us make this path even better for future learners!

## Support Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Bridge technology and customer success through technical problem-solving
    - Communicate technical concepts clearly to technical and non-technical audiences
    - Drive customer success through proactive support and relationship management
    - Collaborate with engineering teams to improve product quality and reliability
    - **Resources:**
      - [Support Engineering Handbook - GitLab](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/support/) - Real-world support practices and methodologies
      - [Customer Service Excellence - HubSpot](https://blog.hubspot.com/service) - Customer service best practices and strategies
      - [The Support Driven Community](https://supportdriven.com/) - Global support professional network and resources

  - **Career Benefits and Opportunities**
    - Direct customer impact helping businesses succeed and grow
    - Technical growth working with cutting-edge technologies and complex systems
    - Strong market demand with competitive compensation and remote-friendly opportunities
    - Multiple advancement paths in technical leadership, management, and entrepreneurship
    - **Resources:**
      - [Support Career Paths - Support Driven](https://supportdriven.com/resources/career-paths/) - Career progression guidance
      - [Tech Support Salary Guide - Glassdoor](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/technical-support-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,26.htm) - Compensation benchmarks
      - [Remote Support Jobs - We Work Remotely](https://weworkremotely.com/categories/remote-customer-support-jobs) - Remote opportunities

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete technical foundation requirements (computer literacy, command line, networking)
    - Develop communication skills (professional communication, customer service, active listening)
    - Build problem-solving abilities (critical thinking, systematic troubleshooting, research skills)
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [CompTIA A+ Free Training - Professor Messer](https://www.professormesser.com/free-a-plus-training/) - Complete IT fundamentals course
      - [Customer Service Fundamentals - HubSpot Academy](https://academy.hubspot.com/courses/customer-service) - Free certification course

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: Support Fundamentals (4-6 weeks) - Core principles and communication
    - Module 2: Technical Foundations (6-8 weeks) - Operating systems, networking, databases
    - Module 3: Advanced Troubleshooting (6-8 weeks) - Debugging, performance, security
    - Module 4: Customer Success (4-6 weeks) - Relationship management and business communication
    - Module 5: Career Development (Ongoing) - Leadership and professional advancement
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: Support Fundamentals](./01-support-fundamentals.md) - Begin your learning journey
      - [Module 2: Technical Foundations](./02-technical-foundations.md) - Build technical expertise
      - [Module 3: Advanced Troubleshooting](./03-advanced-troubleshooting.md) - Master complex problem-solving

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 6-9 months full curriculum with focus on fundamentals
    - Experienced IT Professionals: 4-6 months focused on customer success and advanced skills
    - Support Engineers Seeking Advancement: 3-4 months strategic development for leadership
    - **Resources:**
      - [IT Support Fundamentals - Google](https://www.coursera.org/learn/technical-support-fundamentals) - Google Career Certificate program
      - [Linux Command Line - freeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/) - Technical skills development
      - [Site Reliability Engineering - Google](https://sre.google/books/) - Advanced technical practices

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Professional Certification Training**
    - CompTIA A+, Network+, and Security+ fundamentals for IT support
    - Industry-recognized certifications for career advancement
    - Free training resources and study materials available
    - **Resources:**
      - [CompTIA A+ Training - Professor Messer](https://www.professormesser.com/free-a-plus-training/) - Complete A+ certification preparation
      - [CompTIA Network+ Training - Professor Messer](https://www.professormesser.com/network-plus/) - Networking fundamentals for support engineers
      - [CompTIA Security+ Training - Professor Messer](https://www.professormesser.com/security-plus/) - Security fundamentals and best practices
      - [Professor Messer Study Groups](https://www.professormesser.com/study-groups/) - Live monthly Q&A sessions

  - **Practice Environments and Tools**
    - Set up virtualization and containerization for hands-on practice
    - Version control and portfolio development platforms
    - API testing and development tools
    - **Resources:**
      - [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) - Free virtualization for practice labs
      - [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) - Containerization and modern application deployment
      - [GitHub](https://github.com/) - Version control practice and portfolio development
      - [Postman](https://www.postman.com/) - API testing and development tools

## Community and Networking
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Professional Communities**
    - Join active support engineering communities for networking and learning
    - Participate in discussions and knowledge sharing
    - Access mentorship and career guidance opportunities
    - **Resources:**
      - [Support Driven Slack](https://supportdriven.com/) - 15,000+ support professionals community
      - [r/CustomerService](https://www.reddit.com/r/CustomerService/) - Reddit community discussions and advice
      - [LinkedIn Support Groups](https://www.linkedin.com/) - Professional networking and job opportunities
      - [Local Tech Meetups](https://www.meetup.com/) - In-person networking and learning events

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Foundation Setup**
    - Join professional communities and set up learning environment
    - Create dedicated learning schedule (10-15 hours per week)
    - Review prerequisites and begin Module 1
    - **Resources:**
      - [Support Driven Community](https://supportdriven.com/) - Join the global support network
      - [VirtualBox Setup Guide](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) - Practice environment setup
      - [Learning Schedule Template](https://www.notion.so/) - Time management and planning tools

  - **Weeks 2-4: Core Skills Development**
    - Complete communication exercises and troubleshooting practice
    - Set up documentation system and connect with professionals
    - Begin technical foundation building with hands-on projects
    - **Resources:**
      - [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/) - Documentation formatting reference
      - [Technical Writing Course - Google](https://developers.google.com/tech-writing) - Professional documentation skills
      - [GitHub Learning Lab](https://lab.github.com/) - Version control and collaboration practice

**Ready to Begin?** Start your Support Engineering journey with [Module 1: Support Fundamentals](./01-support-fundamentals.md) and transform your career in technical customer success!
