docs/software-engineering/getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started with Software Engineering

## Software Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Design, develop, and maintain software applications and systems
    - Write clean, efficient, and maintainable code
    - Collaborate with teams to deliver software solutions
    - Debug and troubleshoot software issues and performance problems
    - **Resources:**
      - [What is Software Engineering? - IEEE](https://www.computer.org/education/bodies-of-knowledge/software-engineering) - Professional software engineering definition
      - [Software Engineer Role Guide](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/what-does-software-engineer-do) - Career responsibilities and expectations
      - [Day in the Life of a Software Engineer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g4a7_HH9Wbg) - Real-world software engineering work

  - **Career Benefits and Market Demand**
    - High demand with competitive salaries and remote work opportunities
    - Continuous learning with evolving technologies and frameworks
    - Creative problem-solving and building solutions that impact millions
    - Multiple specialization paths and career advancement opportunities
    - **Resources:**
      - [Software Engineer Salary Guide](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/software-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,17.htm) - Compensation benchmarks and trends
      - [Programming Job Market](https://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/software-developers.htm) - Bureau of Labor Statistics outlook
      - [Remote Software Jobs](https://remoteok.io/remote-dev-jobs) - Remote development opportunities

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete basic computer skills and digital literacy
    - Develop mathematical and logical thinking abilities
    - Build communication and collaboration skills
    - Establish learning mindset and time management practices
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [CS50's Introduction to Computer Science](https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/) - Harvard's foundational computer science course
      - [Computational Thinking](https://www.edx.org/learn/computer-science/university-of-pennsylvania-computational-thinking-for-problem-solving) - University of Pennsylvania

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: Programming Fundamentals (8-12 weeks) - Core programming concepts and languages
    - Module 2: Web Development (10-14 weeks) - Frontend and backend web technologies
    - Module 3: Software Engineering Practices (8-10 weeks) - Professional development practices
    - Module 4: System Design (8-12 weeks) - Architecture and scalable system design
    - Module 5: Career Development (Ongoing) - Professional growth and specialization
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: Programming Fundamentals](./01-programming-fundamentals.md) - Begin your programming journey
      - [Module 2: Web Development](./02-web-development.md) - Build web applications
      - [Module 3: Software Engineering Practices](./03-software-engineering-practices.md) - Professional development

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 18-24 months full curriculum with strong foundational focus
    - Some Technical Background: 12-18 months focused on programming and development
    - Career Changers: 15-20 months leveraging existing professional skills
    - **Resources:**
      - [freeCodeCamp Curriculum](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/) - Comprehensive full-stack development
      - [The Odin Project](https://www.theodinproject.com/) - Complete web development curriculum
      - [App Academy Open](https://open.appacademy.io/) - Full-stack software engineering bootcamp

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Programming Languages and Frameworks**
    - JavaScript for web development and versatility
    - Python for backend development and automation
    - Java or C# for enterprise application development
    - **Resources:**
      - [JavaScript.info](https://javascript.info/) - Comprehensive JavaScript tutorial
      - [Python for Everybody](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/python) - University of Michigan (Free audit)
      - [Java Tutorial - Oracle](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/) - Official Java learning path

  - **Development Tools and Environment**
    - Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) and text editors
    - Version control systems and collaborative development
    - Package managers and dependency management
    - **Resources:**
      - [VS Code Documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs) - Popular code editor and extensions
      - [Git and GitHub Tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart) - Version control and collaboration
      - [Command Line Crash Course](https://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/appendixa.html) - Terminal and command line skills

## Essential Skills and Competencies
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Problem-Solving and Debugging**
    - Systematic debugging techniques and tools
    - Error message interpretation and resolution
    - Testing strategies and quality assurance
    - **Resources:**
      - [Debugging Guide](https://blog.hartleybrody.com/debugging-code-beginner/) - Systematic debugging approaches
      - [Testing Best Practices](https://martinfowler.com/testing/) - Software testing methodologies
      - [Problem-Solving for Programmers](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-think-like-a-programmer-lessons-in-problem-solving-d1d8bf1de7d2/) - Computational problem-solving

  - **Software Design and Architecture**
    - Object-oriented programming concepts
    - Design patterns and software architecture principles
    - Code organization and modular development
    - **Resources:**
      - [Object-Oriented Programming](https://www.coursera.org/learn/object-oriented-java) - Duke University Java OOP (Free audit)
      - [Design Patterns](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns) - Software design patterns guide
      - [Clean Code Principles](https://github.com/zedr/clean-code-python) - Code quality and organization

## Industry Knowledge and Context
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)**
    - Agile and Scrum methodologies
    - Requirements gathering and analysis
    - Software testing and quality assurance
    - **Resources:**
      - [Software Development Life Cycle](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/sdlc/index.htm) - SDLC phases and methodologies
      - [Agile Software Development](https://www.atlassian.com/agile) - Agile principles and practices
      - [Scrum Guide](https://scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html) - Official Scrum framework

  - **Technology Landscape and Trends**
    - Current programming languages and frameworks
    - Emerging technologies and industry trends
    - Open-source software and community contributions
    - **Resources:**
      - [Stack Overflow Developer Survey](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/) - Annual developer trends and technologies
      - [GitHub State of the Octoverse](https://octoverse.github.com/) - Open-source development trends
      - [Technology Radar - ThoughtWorks](https://www.thoughtworks.com/radar) - Technology adoption trends

## Assessment and Readiness Check
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Aptitude Assessment**
    - Complete basic logic and mathematical reasoning tests
    - Demonstrate ability to learn new concepts independently
    - Show persistence in solving challenging problems
    - **Resources:**
      - [Programming Aptitude Test](https://www.hackerrank.com/domains/tutorials/10-days-of-javascript) - HackerRank programming challenges
      - [Logic Puzzles](https://www.puzzles.com/Logic.html) - Logical reasoning practice
      - [Codecademy Skill Assessment](https://www.codecademy.com/) - Programming skill evaluation

  - **Learning Environment Setup**
    - Set up basic development environment
    - Install and configure essential software tools
    - Create accounts on learning platforms and communities
    - **Resources:**
      - [Development Environment Setup](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-set-up-a-developer-environment/) - Basic development setup
      - [GitHub Account Setup](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/signing-up-for-github) - Version control platform
      - [Stack Overflow Account](https://stackoverflow.com/users/signup) - Programming community participation

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Foundation Assessment and Setup**
    - Complete prerequisite assessment and identify learning gaps
    - Set up development environment and essential tools
    - Join programming communities and learning platforms
    - **Resources:**
      - [Programming Foundations Assessment](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-programming) - Skill level evaluation
      - [Development Tools Setup Guide](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/setup-overview) - IDE and tool configuration
      - [Programming Communities](https://dev.to/) - Developer community and learning resources

  - **Weeks 2-4: Basic Programming Concepts**
    - Learn fundamental programming concepts and syntax
    - Practice with simple coding exercises and projects
    - Develop problem-solving and debugging skills
    - **Resources:**
      - [Programming Basics - freeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/) - JavaScript fundamentals
      - [Python Basics - Python.org](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/) - Official Python tutorial
      - [Coding Practice - Codewars](https://www.codewars.com/) - Programming challenges and exercises

  - **Month 2-3: Project-Based Learning**
    - Build simple applications and projects
    - Learn version control and collaborative development
    - Practice with real-world programming scenarios
    - **Resources:**
      - [Project Ideas for Beginners](https://github.com/karan/Projects) - Programming project suggestions
      - [Git Tutorial](https://learngitbranching.js.org/) - Interactive Git learning
      - [Open Source Contribution](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/) - Contributing to open-source projects

**Ready to Begin?** Start your Software Engineering journey with [Module 1: Programming Fundamentals](./01-programming-fundamentals.md) and build the core programming skills that form the foundation of all software development!

Commit message:

Add beta notices to all learning path getting-started pages
- Add prominent beta notice to top of all 10 learning path getting-started.md files
- Notice encourages community feedback and contributions via Discord and GitHub
- Explains that paths are continuously improved based on user input
- Provides clear channels for feedback: Discord discussions and GitHub PRs/issues
- Maintains transparency about iterative improvement process
- Encourages community participation in content development

Beta notices added to:
- Support Engineering
- Software Engineering
- Data Science
- Linux Engineering
- Cloud Engineering
- AI Engineering
- Machine Learning Engineering
- MLOps Engineering
- DevOps Engineering
- Research Engineering

Promotes open-source collaboration and community-driven improvement

docs/software-engineering/getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Getting Started with Software Engineering

> **🚧 This learning path is in beta!** We're continuously improving our content based on community feedback. Have suggestions, found outdated resources, or want to contribute? 
> - **Discord:** Join our community discussions
> - **GitHub:** Open an issue or submit a pull request to our [repository](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/chasingcloudcareers-site)
> - **Feedback:** Help us make this path even better for future learners!

## Software Engineering Role Overview
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Role Definition and Responsibilities**
    - Design, develop, and maintain software applications and systems
    - Write clean, efficient, and maintainable code
    - Collaborate with teams to deliver software solutions
    - Debug and troubleshoot software issues and performance problems
    - **Resources:**
      - [What is Software Engineering? - IEEE](https://www.computer.org/education/bodies-of-knowledge/software-engineering) - Professional software engineering definition
      - [Software Engineer Role Guide](https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/finding-a-job/what-does-software-engineer-do) - Career responsibilities and expectations
      - [Day in the Life of a Software Engineer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g4a7_HH9Wbg) - Real-world software engineering work

  - **Career Benefits and Market Demand**
    - High demand with competitive salaries and remote work opportunities
    - Continuous learning with evolving technologies and frameworks
    - Creative problem-solving and building solutions that impact millions
    - Multiple specialization paths and career advancement opportunities
    - **Resources:**
      - [Software Engineer Salary Guide](https://www.glassdoor.com/Salaries/software-engineer-salary-SRCH_KO0,17.htm) - Compensation benchmarks and trends
      - [Programming Job Market](https://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/software-developers.htm) - Bureau of Labor Statistics outlook
      - [Remote Software Jobs](https://remoteok.io/remote-dev-jobs) - Remote development opportunities

## Prerequisites and Foundation
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Essential Prerequisites Review**
    - Complete basic computer skills and digital literacy
    - Develop mathematical and logical thinking abilities
    - Build communication and collaboration skills
    - Establish learning mindset and time management practices
    - **Resources:**
      - [Complete Prerequisites Guide](./00-prerequisites.md) - Comprehensive foundation requirements
      - [CS50's Introduction to Computer Science](https://cs50.harvard.edu/x/) - Harvard's foundational computer science course
      - [Computational Thinking](https://www.edx.org/learn/computer-science/university-of-pennsylvania-computational-thinking-for-problem-solving) - University of Pennsylvania

## Learning Path Structure
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Five Progressive Modules Overview**
    - Module 1: Programming Fundamentals (8-12 weeks) - Core programming concepts and languages
    - Module 2: Web Development (10-14 weeks) - Frontend and backend web technologies
    - Module 3: Software Engineering Practices (8-10 weeks) - Professional development practices
    - Module 4: System Design (8-12 weeks) - Architecture and scalable system design
    - Module 5: Career Development (Ongoing) - Professional growth and specialization
    - **Resources:**
      - [Module 1: Programming Fundamentals](./01-programming-fundamentals.md) - Begin your programming journey
      - [Module 2: Web Development](./02-web-development.md) - Build web applications
      - [Module 3: Software Engineering Practices](./03-software-engineering-practices.md) - Professional development

  - **Personalized Learning Pathways**
    - Complete Beginners: 18-24 months full curriculum with strong foundational focus
    - Some Technical Background: 12-18 months focused on programming and development
    - Career Changers: 15-20 months leveraging existing professional skills
    - **Resources:**
      - [freeCodeCamp Curriculum](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/) - Comprehensive full-stack development
      - [The Odin Project](https://www.theodinproject.com/) - Complete web development curriculum
      - [App Academy Open](https://open.appacademy.io/) - Full-stack software engineering bootcamp

## Professional Development Resources
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Programming Languages and Frameworks**
    - JavaScript for web development and versatility
    - Python for backend development and automation
    - Java or C# for enterprise application development
    - **Resources:**
      - [JavaScript.info](https://javascript.info/) - Comprehensive JavaScript tutorial
      - [Python for Everybody](https://www.coursera.org/specializations/python) - University of Michigan (Free audit)
      - [Java Tutorial - Oracle](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/) - Official Java learning path

  - **Development Tools and Environment**
    - Integrated Development Environments (IDEs) and text editors
    - Version control systems and collaborative development
    - Package managers and dependency management
    - **Resources:**
      - [VS Code Documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs) - Popular code editor and extensions
      - [Git and GitHub Tutorial](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart) - Version control and collaboration
      - [Command Line Crash Course](https://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/appendixa.html) - Terminal and command line skills

## Essential Skills and Competencies
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Problem-Solving and Debugging**
    - Systematic debugging techniques and tools
    - Error message interpretation and resolution
    - Testing strategies and quality assurance
    - **Resources:**
      - [Debugging Guide](https://blog.hartleybrody.com/debugging-code-beginner/) - Systematic debugging approaches
      - [Testing Best Practices](https://martinfowler.com/testing/) - Software testing methodologies
      - [Problem-Solving for Programmers](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-think-like-a-programmer-lessons-in-problem-solving-d1d8bf1de7d2/) - Computational problem-solving

  - **Software Design and Architecture**
    - Object-oriented programming concepts
    - Design patterns and software architecture principles
    - Code organization and modular development
    - **Resources:**
      - [Object-Oriented Programming](https://www.coursera.org/learn/object-oriented-java) - Duke University Java OOP (Free audit)
      - [Design Patterns](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns) - Software design patterns guide
      - [Clean Code Principles](https://github.com/zedr/clean-code-python) - Code quality and organization

## Industry Knowledge and Context
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC)**
    - Agile and Scrum methodologies
    - Requirements gathering and analysis
    - Software testing and quality assurance
    - **Resources:**
      - [Software Development Life Cycle](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/sdlc/index.htm) - SDLC phases and methodologies
      - [Agile Software Development](https://www.atlassian.com/agile) - Agile principles and practices
      - [Scrum Guide](https://scrumguides.org/scrum-guide.html) - Official Scrum framework

  - **Technology Landscape and Trends**
    - Current programming languages and frameworks
    - Emerging technologies and industry trends
    - Open-source software and community contributions
    - **Resources:**
      - [Stack Overflow Developer Survey](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/) - Annual developer trends and technologies
      - [GitHub State of the Octoverse](https://octoverse.github.com/) - Open-source development trends
      - [Technology Radar - ThoughtWorks](https://www.thoughtworks.com/radar) - Technology adoption trends

## Assessment and Readiness Check
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Technical Aptitude Assessment**
    - Complete basic logic and mathematical reasoning tests
    - Demonstrate ability to learn new concepts independently
    - Show persistence in solving challenging problems
    - **Resources:**
      - [Programming Aptitude Test](https://www.hackerrank.com/domains/tutorials/10-days-of-javascript) - HackerRank programming challenges
      - [Logic Puzzles](https://www.puzzles.com/Logic.html) - Logical reasoning practice
      - [Codecademy Skill Assessment](https://www.codecademy.com/) - Programming skill evaluation

  - **Learning Environment Setup**
    - Set up basic development environment
    - Install and configure essential software tools
    - Create accounts on learning platforms and communities
    - **Resources:**
      - [Development Environment Setup](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/how-to-set-up-a-developer-environment/) - Basic development setup
      - [GitHub Account Setup](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/signing-up-for-github) - Version control platform
      - [Stack Overflow Account](https://stackoverflow.com/users/signup) - Programming community participation

## Getting Started Action Plan
- **What you Need to Know**
  - **Week 1: Foundation Assessment and Setup**
    - Complete prerequisite assessment and identify learning gaps
    - Set up development environment and essential tools
    - Join programming communities and learning platforms
    - **Resources:**
      - [Programming Foundations Assessment](https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-programming) - Skill level evaluation
      - [Development Tools Setup Guide](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/setup-overview) - IDE and tool configuration
      - [Programming Communities](https://dev.to/) - Developer community and learning resources

  - **Weeks 2-4: Basic Programming Concepts**
    - Learn fundamental programming concepts and syntax
    - Practice with simple coding exercises and projects
    - Develop problem-solving and debugging skills
    - **Resources:**
      - [Programming Basics - freeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/javascript-algorithms-and-data-structures/) - JavaScript fundamentals
      - [Python Basics - Python.org](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/) - Official Python tutorial
      - [Coding Practice - Codewars](https://www.codewars.com/) - Programming challenges and exercises

  - **Month 2-3: Project-Based Learning**
    - Build simple applications and projects
    - Learn version control and collaborative development
    - Practice with real-world programming scenarios
    - **Resources:**
      - [Project Ideas for Beginners](https://github.com/karan/Projects) - Programming project suggestions
      - [Git Tutorial](https://learngitbranching.js.org/) - Interactive Git learning
      - [Open Source Contribution](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/) - Contributing to open-source projects

**Ready to Begin?** Start your Software Engineering journey with [Module 1: Programming Fundamentals](./01-programming-fundamentals.md) and build the core programming skills that form the foundation of all software development!
