docs/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Welcome to Chasing Cloud Careers

**Free learning paths for engineering careers** - Your guide to Support, Linux, Cloud, DevOps, and AI Engineering.

## Our Mission

We provide **completely free, structured learning paths** to help you break into and advance in engineering careers. All resources are carefully curated from the best free content available online, including documentation, articles, blogs, videos, and hands-on practice repositories.

## Learning Paths Available

### Support Engineering
Learn the fundamentals of technical support, troubleshooting, and customer success in technology companies.

### Linux Engineering
Master Linux systems administration, shell scripting, and system operations.

### Cloud Engineering
Dive into cloud platforms (AWS, Azure, GCP), infrastructure as code, and cloud-native technologies.

### DevOps Engineering
Explore CI/CD pipelines, containerization, orchestration, monitoring, and automation.

### AI Engineering
Understand machine learning operations, AI model deployment, and AI infrastructure.

### Research Engineering
Explore cutting-edge research and development in AI, ML, and emerging technologies. Bridge the gap between research and practical implementation.

## What You'll Find

- **Structured Learning Paths**: Step-by-step guides from beginner to advanced
- **Free Resources**: Curated links to the best free documentation, tutorials, and courses
- **Hands-on Practice**: Links to repositories and labs to practice your skills
- **Real-world Projects**: Practical exercises that mirror industry work
- **Career Guidance**: Tips for landing your first role and advancing your career

## Getting Started

1. Choose your learning path from the sidebar
2. Follow the structured curriculum
3. Complete the hands-on exercises
4. Build your portfolio with real projects
5. Apply for your dream engineering role!

---

*Ready to start your engineering journey? Pick a learning path and let's begin!*

Commit message:

Update intro.md to reflect all 10 learning paths
- Update welcome message to mention 10 different engineering career paths
- Add comprehensive descriptions for all available learning paths:
  * Support Engineering - Technical support and customer success
  * Software Engineering - Programming and application development
  * Data Science - Statistical analysis and predictive modeling
  * Linux Engineering - System administration and server management
  * Cloud Engineering - Multi-cloud infrastructure and architecture
  * AI Engineering - AI application development and integration
  * Machine Learning Engineering - ML algorithms and model development
  * MLOps Engineering - ML infrastructure and deployment pipelines
  * DevOps Engineering - CI/CD and infrastructure automation
  * Research Engineering - Cutting-edge research and development

Updated descriptions emphasize practical skills and career outcomes
Maintains focus on free, curated resources for self-directed learning

docs/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Welcome to Chasing Cloud Careers

**Free learning paths for engineering careers** - Your comprehensive guide to 10 different engineering career paths with structured, self-directed learning.

## Our Mission

We provide **completely free, structured learning paths** to help you break into and advance in engineering careers. All resources are carefully curated from the best free content available online, including documentation, articles, blogs, videos, and hands-on practice repositories.

## Learning Paths Available

### Support Engineering
Learn the fundamentals of technical support, troubleshooting, and customer success in technology companies. Master communication skills, technical problem-solving, and customer relationship management.

### Software Engineering
Master programming fundamentals, web development, and software engineering practices. Build scalable applications and develop professional software development skills.

### Data Science
Learn statistical analysis, data visualization, and predictive modeling to extract insights from data. Master the complete analytics workflow from data collection to business impact.

### Linux Engineering
Master Linux systems administration, shell scripting, and system operations. Become proficient in command-line tools, automation, and server management.

### Cloud Engineering
Dive into multi-cloud platforms (AWS, Azure, GCP), infrastructure as code, and cloud-native technologies. Design scalable, secure, and cost-effective cloud solutions.

### AI Engineering
Build AI-powered applications using modern frameworks, APIs, and integration patterns. Focus on practical AI implementation and user-facing AI systems.

### Machine Learning Engineering
Master machine learning algorithms, model development, and statistical foundations. Build ML systems from mathematical theory to production implementation.

### MLOps Engineering
Learn ML infrastructure, deployment pipelines, and operationalizing machine learning systems. Bridge the gap between ML development and production deployment.

### DevOps Engineering
Explore CI/CD pipelines, containerization, orchestration, monitoring, and automation. Master modern software delivery and infrastructure management.

### Research Engineering
Explore cutting-edge research and development in AI, ML, and emerging technologies. Bridge the gap between research and practical implementation.

## What You'll Find

- **Structured Learning Paths**: Step-by-step guides from beginner to advanced
- **Free Resources**: Curated links to the best free documentation, tutorials, and courses
- **Hands-on Practice**: Links to repositories and labs to practice your skills
- **Real-world Projects**: Practical exercises that mirror industry work
- **Career Guidance**: Tips for landing your first role and advancing your career

## Getting Started

1. Choose your learning path from the sidebar
2. Follow the structured curriculum
3. Complete the hands-on exercises
4. Build your portfolio with real projects
5. Apply for your dream engineering role!

---

*Ready to start your engineering journey? Pick a learning path and let's begin!*
