docs/research-engineering/getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Research Engineering Learning Path

Welcome to **Research Engineering** - the intersection of cutting-edge research and practical implementation. This field bridges the gap between academic research and real-world applications, making you a valuable contributor to innovation across any industry.

## What is Research Engineering?

Research Engineering combines:
- **Scientific methodology** with practical implementation skills
- **Academic research** with industry applications  
- **Experimental design** with production-ready systems
- **Open science** with collaborative development

Research engineers work at the forefront of technology, turning breakthrough research into working prototypes and scalable solutions.

## Why Research Engineering?

### High-Impact Career Path
- Work on cutting-edge problems that shape the future
- Bridge the gap between research and real-world applications
- Contribute to open science and democratized research
- Build solutions that advance entire fields of study

### Versatile Skill Set
- Applicable across all industries (AI/ML, biotech, fintech, etc.)
- Combines technical depth with research methodology
- Valuable in both academic and industry settings
- Enables independent research and innovation

### Growing Demand
- Tech companies increasingly need research engineers
- Startups require rapid research-to-product capabilities
- Academic institutions value industry collaboration
- Open research initiatives need technical contributors

## Prerequisites

- **Programming experience** (Python recommended)
- **Mathematical foundation** (statistics, basic calculus)
- **Scientific curiosity** and analytical mindset
- **Willingness to learn** complex technical concepts

*Don't have all prerequisites? You can learn as you go - research engineering teaches you to acquire knowledge systematically.*

## Complete Learning Path at Average Joes Lab

**This comprehensive learning path is provided by our research community at Average Joes Lab:**

### 🚀 [**Complete Research Engineering Learning Path →**](https://averagejoeslab.com/docs/intro)

**What you'll find at Average Joes Lab:**

#### **4-Phase Structured Curriculum (16 weeks)**
- **Phase 1: Research Foundations** - Scientific method, literature review, experimental design
- **Phase 2: Technical Skills** - Programming for research, version control, reproducible workflows  
- **Phase 3: Research Practice** - Original research projects, systematic experimentation
- **Phase 4: Community Contribution** - Publishing, mentoring, collaborative research

#### **Hands-On Learning Approach**
- **Real research projects** from day one
- **Paper reproduction** to learn methodology
- **Original research** with community support
- **Research engineering flywheel** - continuous innovation cycle

#### **Complete Template Repository**
- **[Research Engineering Starter Template](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/research-engineering-starter)** - Organized structure for all 4 phases
- **Best practices** for research documentation
- **Version control** for research projects
- **Links to all learning resources**

#### **Active Research Community**
- **Discord community** for real-time collaboration
- **Mentorship program** with experienced researchers
- **Monthly research meetups** and discussions
- **Collaborative projects** with global impact
- **Open source focus** - all research is transparent

## Why Average Joes Lab for Research Engineering?

### **Democratized Research**
- No gatekeeping based on credentials or institutional affiliation
- Learn from practitioners and community experts
- Contribute to meaningful research from day one
- Open and accessible to all backgrounds

### **Practical Focus**
- Learn by doing real research, not just theory
- Build a portfolio of actual research contributions
- Develop skills that translate directly to career opportunities
- Experience the complete research-to-implementation pipeline

### **Community-Driven**
- Collaborate with fellow citizen researchers worldwide
- Get mentorship from experienced research engineers
- Participate in real research projects with global impact
- Share knowledge and learn from diverse perspectives

## Career Opportunities

Research Engineering opens doors to:
- **Research Scientist** at major tech companies
- **Applied Research Engineer** in industry R&D
- **Research & Development Lead** at innovative organizations
- **Independent Researcher** in citizen science initiatives
- **Research Consultant** for emerging technologies
- **Academic Research Collaborator** bridging industry and academia

## Get Started Today

### **Immediate Next Steps:**

1. **[📚 Start the Complete Learning Path](https://averagejoeslab.com/docs/intro)** - Comprehensive 16-week curriculum
2. **[🚀 Fork the Starter Template](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/research-engineering-starter)** - Get organized project structure
3. **[💬 Join the Discord Community](https://discord.gg/averagejoeslab)** - Connect with fellow researchers
4. **[🔬 Explore Ongoing Projects](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/averagejoeslab)** - Find collaboration opportunities

### **Choose Your Research Journey:**
- **Beginner**: Start with literature review and paper reproduction
- **Intermediate**: Jump into original research with community support  
- **Advanced**: Lead collaborative projects and mentor others

---

**Ready to contribute to the future of research?**

**[🚀 Begin Your Research Engineering Journey at Average Joes Lab →](https://averagejoeslab.com/docs/intro)**

*"Research is not just for academics. Every curious mind can contribute to human knowledge."*

Commit message:

Add beta notices to all learning path getting-started pages
- Add prominent beta notice to top of all 10 learning path getting-started.md files
- Notice encourages community feedback and contributions via Discord and GitHub
- Explains that paths are continuously improved based on user input
- Provides clear channels for feedback: Discord discussions and GitHub PRs/issues
- Maintains transparency about iterative improvement process
- Encourages community participation in content development

Beta notices added to:
- Support Engineering
- Software Engineering
- Data Science
- Linux Engineering
- Cloud Engineering
- AI Engineering
- Machine Learning Engineering
- MLOps Engineering
- DevOps Engineering
- Research Engineering

Promotes open-source collaboration and community-driven improvement

docs/research-engineering/getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Research Engineering Learning Path

> **🚧 This learning path is in beta!** We're continuously improving our content based on community feedback. Have suggestions, found outdated resources, or want to contribute? 
> - **Discord:** Join our community discussions
> - **GitHub:** Open an issue or submit a pull request to our [repository](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/chasingcloudcareers-site)
> - **Feedback:** Help us make this path even better for future learners!

Welcome to **Research Engineering** - the intersection of cutting-edge research and practical implementation. This field bridges the gap between academic research and real-world applications, making you a valuable contributor to innovation across any industry.

## What is Research Engineering?

Research Engineering combines:
- **Scientific methodology** with practical implementation skills
- **Academic research** with industry applications  
- **Experimental design** with production-ready systems
- **Open science** with collaborative development

Research engineers work at the forefront of technology, turning breakthrough research into working prototypes and scalable solutions.

## Why Research Engineering?

### High-Impact Career Path
- Work on cutting-edge problems that shape the future
- Bridge the gap between research and real-world applications
- Contribute to open science and democratized research
- Build solutions that advance entire fields of study

### Versatile Skill Set
- Applicable across all industries (AI/ML, biotech, fintech, etc.)
- Combines technical depth with research methodology
- Valuable in both academic and industry settings
- Enables independent research and innovation

### Growing Demand
- Tech companies increasingly need research engineers
- Startups require rapid research-to-product capabilities
- Academic institutions value industry collaboration
- Open research initiatives need technical contributors

## Prerequisites

- **Programming experience** (Python recommended)
- **Mathematical foundation** (statistics, basic calculus)
- **Scientific curiosity** and analytical mindset
- **Willingness to learn** complex technical concepts

*Don't have all prerequisites? You can learn as you go - research engineering teaches you to acquire knowledge systematically.*

## Complete Learning Path at Average Joes Lab

**This comprehensive learning path is provided by our research community at Average Joes Lab:**

### 🚀 [**Complete Research Engineering Learning Path →**](https://averagejoeslab.com/docs/intro)

**What you'll find at Average Joes Lab:**

#### **4-Phase Structured Curriculum (16 weeks)**
- **Phase 1: Research Foundations** - Scientific method, literature review, experimental design
- **Phase 2: Technical Skills** - Programming for research, version control, reproducible workflows  
- **Phase 3: Research Practice** - Original research projects, systematic experimentation
- **Phase 4: Community Contribution** - Publishing, mentoring, collaborative research

#### **Hands-On Learning Approach**
- **Real research projects** from day one
- **Paper reproduction** to learn methodology
- **Original research** with community support
- **Research engineering flywheel** - continuous innovation cycle

#### **Complete Template Repository**
- **[Research Engineering Starter Template](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/research-engineering-starter)** - Organized structure for all 4 phases
- **Best practices** for research documentation
- **Version control** for research projects
- **Links to all learning resources**

#### **Active Research Community**
- **Discord community** for real-time collaboration
- **Mentorship program** with experienced researchers
- **Monthly research meetups** and discussions
- **Collaborative projects** with global impact
- **Open source focus** - all research is transparent

## Why Average Joes Lab for Research Engineering?

### **Democratized Research**
- No gatekeeping based on credentials or institutional affiliation
- Learn from practitioners and community experts
- Contribute to meaningful research from day one
- Open and accessible to all backgrounds

### **Practical Focus**
- Learn by doing real research, not just theory
- Build a portfolio of actual research contributions
- Develop skills that translate directly to career opportunities
- Experience the complete research-to-implementation pipeline

### **Community-Driven**
- Collaborate with fellow citizen researchers worldwide
- Get mentorship from experienced research engineers
- Participate in real research projects with global impact
- Share knowledge and learn from diverse perspectives

## Career Opportunities

Research Engineering opens doors to:
- **Research Scientist** at major tech companies
- **Applied Research Engineer** in industry R&D
- **Research & Development Lead** at innovative organizations
- **Independent Researcher** in citizen science initiatives
- **Research Consultant** for emerging technologies
- **Academic Research Collaborator** bridging industry and academia

## Get Started Today

### **Immediate Next Steps:**

1. **[📚 Start the Complete Learning Path](https://averagejoeslab.com/docs/intro)** - Comprehensive 16-week curriculum
2. **[🚀 Fork the Starter Template](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/research-engineering-starter)** - Get organized project structure
3. **[💬 Join the Discord Community](https://discord.gg/averagejoeslab)** - Connect with fellow researchers
4. **[🔬 Explore Ongoing Projects](https://github.com/mrcloudchase/averagejoeslab)** - Find collaboration opportunities

### **Choose Your Research Journey:**
- **Beginner**: Start with literature review and paper reproduction
- **Intermediate**: Jump into original research with community support  
- **Advanced**: Lead collaborative projects and mentor others

---

**Ready to contribute to the future of research?**

**[🚀 Begin Your Research Engineering Journey at Average Joes Lab →](https://averagejoeslab.com/docs/intro)**

*"Research is not just for academics. Every curious mind can contribute to human knowledge."*
